        H.R.2030

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and nineteen


                                 An Act


 
    To direct the Secretary of the Interior to execute and carry out 
agreements concerning Colorado River Drought Contingency Management and 
                   Operations, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Colorado River Drought Contingency 
Plan Authorization Act''.
SEC. 2. COLORADO RIVER BASIN DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLANS.
    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
expressly addressing the operation of the applicable Colorado River 
System reservoirs, immediately upon execution of the March 19, 2019, 
versions of the Agreement Concerning Colorado River Drought Contingency 
Management and Operations and the agreements attached thereto as 
Attachments A1, A2, and B, by all of the non-Federal parties thereto, 
the Secretary of the Interior shall, without delay, execute such 
agreements, and is directed and authorized to carry out the provisions 
of such agreements and operate applicable Colorado River System 
reservoirs accordingly.
    (b) Effect.--Nothing in this section shall--
        (1) be construed or interpreted as precedent for the litigation 
    of, or as altering, affecting, or being deemed as a congressional 
    determination regarding, the water rights of the United States, any 
    Indian Tribe, band, or community, any State or political 
    subdivision or district of a State, or any person; or
        (2) exempt the implementation of such agreements and the 
    operation of applicable Colorado River System reservoirs from any 
    requirements of applicable Federal environmental laws.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
