        H.R.6435

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twenty


                                 An Act


 
   To direct the Federal Trade Commission to develop and disseminate 
information to the public about scams related to COVID-19, and for other 
                                purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Combating Pandemic Scams Act of 
2020''.
SEC. 2. INFORMATION ABOUT SCAMS RELATED TO COVID-19.
    (a) Dissemination of Information.--
        (1) In general.--As expeditiously as possible after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Commission, in consultation with the 
    Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the 
    Postmaster General, the Chief Postal Inspector, and the Internet 
    Crime Complaint Center, shall develop and disseminate information 
    to the public about scams related to the novel coronavirus (COVID-
    19).
        (2) Requirements.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
    Commission shall--
            (A) include--
                (i) information regarding mail, telemarketing, and 
            internet fraud and illegal robocalls related to COVID-19 
            that identifies the most common scams; and
                (ii) information regarding where and how to report 
            instances of scams related to COVID-19, including 
            instructions on how to file a complaint with the 
            appropriate law enforcement agency;
            (B) disseminate information under such paragraph in a 
        manner that prioritizes, and that is easily accessible by and 
        user-friendly to, senior citizens and people with infirmities 
        and disabilities;
            (C) disseminate information under such paragraph on an 
        internet website of the Commission that serves as a source of 
        information for the public about scams related to COVID-19; and
            (D) regularly update the information developed and 
        disseminated under such paragraph to keep pace with the 
        changing nature of scams related to COVID-19.
    (b) Database.--As expeditiously as possible after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Commission shall, in consultation with State 
law enforcement agencies, the Director of the Bureau of Consumer 
Financial Protection, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, and other relevant Federal officials, establish a 
comprehensive national database, either within or separate from the 
Consumer Sentinel Network, that tracks instances of scams related to 
COVID-19.
    (c) Commission Defined.--In this section, the term ``Commission'' 
means the Federal Trade Commission.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.
    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
