        H.R.4761

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twenty


                                 An Act


 
To ensure U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers, agents, and other 
 personnel have adequate synthetic opioid detection equipment, that the 
Department of Homeland Security has a process to update synthetic opioid 
              detection capability, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``DHS Opioid Detection Resilience Act 
of 2019''.
SEC. 2. STRATEGY TO ENSURE DETECTION OF ALL OPIOID PURITY LEVELS AT 
PORTS OF ENTRY.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
section, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) 
shall--
        (1) implement a strategy to ensure deployed chemical screening 
    devices are able to identify in an operational environment 
    narcotics at purity levels less than or equal to 10 percent, or 
    provide ports of entry with an alternate method for identifying 
    narcotics at lower purity levels; and
        (2) require testing of any new chemical screening devices to 
    understand the abilities and limitations of such devices relating 
    to identifying narcotics at various purity levels before CBP 
    commits to the acquisition of such devices.
SEC. 3. PLAN TO ENSURE OPIOID DETECTION EQUIPMENT RESILIENCY.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
section, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement a plan for 
the long-term development of a centralized spectral database for 
chemical screening devices. Such plan shall address the following:
        (1) How newly identified spectra will be collected, stored, and 
    distributed to such devices in their operational environment, 
    including at ports of entry.
        (2) Identification of parties responsible for updates and 
    maintenance of such database.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
