116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 1668

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To establish minimum security standards for Internet of Things devices 
 owned or controlled by the Federal Government, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Internet of Things Cybersecurity 
Improvement Act of 2020'' or the ``IoT Cybersecurity Improvement Act of 
2020''.

SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) ensuring the highest level of cybersecurity at agencies 
        in the executive branch is the responsibility of the President, 
        followed by the Director of the Office of Management and 
        Budget, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the head of 
        each such agency;
            (2) this responsibility is to be carried out by working 
        collaboratively within and among agencies in the executive 
        branch, industry, and academia;
            (3) the strength of the cybersecurity of the Federal 
        Government and the positive benefits of digital technology 
        transformation depend on proactively addressing cybersecurity 
        throughout the acquisition and operation of Internet of Things 
        devices by the Federal Government; and
            (4) consistent with the second draft National Institute for 
        Standards and Technology Interagency or Internal Report 8259 
        titled ``Recommendations for IoT Device Manufacturers: 
        Foundational Activities and Core Device Cybersecurity 
        Capability Baseline'', published in January 2020, Internet of 
        Things devices are devices that--
                    (A) have at least one transducer (sensor or 
                actuator) for interacting directly with the physical 
                world, have at least one network interface, and are not 
                conventional Information Technology devices, such as 
                smartphones and laptops, for which the identification 
                and implementation of cybersecurity features is already 
                well understood; and
                    (B) can function on their own and are not only able 
                to function when acting as a component of another 
                device, such as a processor.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code.
            (2) Director of omb.--The term ``Director of OMB'' means 
        the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
            (3) Director of the institute.--The term ``Director of the 
        Institute'' means the Director of the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology.
            (4) Information system.--The term ``information system'' 
        has the meaning given that term in section 3502 of title 44, 
        United States Code.
            (5) National security system.--The term ``national security 
        system'' has the meaning given that term in section 3552(b)(6) 
        of title 44, United States Code.
            (6) Operational technology.--The term ``operational 
        technology'' means hardware and software that detects or causes 
        a change through the direct monitoring or control of physical 
        devices, processes, and events in the enterprise.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Homeland Security.
            (8) Security vulnerability.--The term ``security 
        vulnerability'' has the meaning given that term in section 
        102(17) of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6 
        U.S.C. 1501(17)).

SEC. 4. SECURITY STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES FOR AGENCIES ON USE AND 
              MANAGEMENT OF INTERNET OF THINGS DEVICES.

    (a) National Institute of Standards and Technology Development of 
Standards and Guidelines for Use of Internet of Things Devices by 
Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Institute shall 
        develop and publish under section 20 of the National Institute 
        of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3) standards 
        and guidelines for the Federal Government on the appropriate 
        use and management by agencies of Internet of Things devices 
        owned or controlled by an agency and connected to information 
        systems owned or controlled by an agency, including minimum 
        information security requirements for managing cybersecurity 
        risks associated with such devices.
            (2) Consistency with ongoing efforts.--The Director of the 
        Institute shall ensure that the standards and guidelines 
        developed under paragraph (1) are consistent with the efforts 
        of the National Institute of Standards and Technology in effect 
        on the date of the enactment of this Act--
                    (A) regarding--
                            (i) examples of possible security 
                        vulnerabilities of Internet of Things devices; 
                        and
                            (ii) considerations for managing the 
                        security vulnerabilities of Internet of Things 
                        devices; and
                    (B) with respect to the following considerations 
                for Internet of Things devices:
                            (i) Secure Development.
                            (ii) Identity management.
                            (iii) Patching.
                            (iv) Configuration management.
            (3) Considering relevant standards.--In developing the 
        standards and guidelines under paragraph (1), the Director of 
        the Institute shall consider relevant standards, guidelines, 
        and best practices developed by the private sector, agencies, 
        and public-private partnerships.
    (b) Review of Agency Information Security Policies and 
Principles.--
            (1) Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
        which the Director of the Institute completes the development 
        of the standards and guidelines required under subsection (a), 
        the Director of OMB shall review agency information security 
        policies and principles on the basis of the standards and 
        guidelines published under subsection (a) pertaining to 
        Internet of Things devices owned or controlled by agencies 
        (excluding agency information security policies and principles 
        pertaining to Internet of Things of devices owned or controlled 
        by agencies that are or comprise a national security system) 
        for consistency with the standards and guidelines submitted 
        under subsection (a) and issue such policies and principles as 
        may be necessary to ensure those policies and principles are 
        consistent with such standards and guidelines.
            (2) Review.--In reviewing agency information security 
        policies and principles under paragraph (1) and issuing 
        policies and principles under such paragraph, as may be 
        necessary, the Director of OMB shall--
                    (A) consult with the Director of the Cybersecurity 
                and Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department of 
                Homeland Security; and
                    (B) ensure such policies and principles are 
                consistent with the information security requirements 
                under subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 44, United 
                States Code.
            (3) National security systems.--Any policy or principle 
        issued by the Director of OMB under paragraph (1) shall not 
        apply to national security systems.
    (c) Quinquennial Review and Revision.--
            (1) Review and revision of nist standards and guidelines.--
        Not later than 5 years after the date on which the Director of 
        the Institute publishes the standards and guidelines under 
        subsection (a), and not less frequently than once every 5 years 
        thereafter, the Director of the Institute, shall--
                    (A) review such standards and guidelines; and
                    (B) revise such standards and guidelines as 
                appropriate.
            (2) Updated omb policies and principles for agencies.--Not 
        later than 180 days after the Director of the Institute makes a 
        revision pursuant to paragraph (1), the Director of OMB, in 
        consultation with the Director of the Cybersecurity and 
        Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department of Homeland 
        Security, shall update any policy or principle issued under 
        subsection (b)(1) as necessary to ensure those policies and 
        principles are consistent with the review and any revision 
        under paragraph (1) under this subsection and paragraphs (2) 
        and (3) of subsection (b).
    (d) Revision of Federal Acquisition Regulation.--The Federal 
Acquisition Regulation shall be revised as necessary to implement any 
standards and guidelines promulgated in this section.

SEC. 5. GUIDELINES ON THE DISCLOSURE PROCESS FOR SECURITY 
              VULNERABILITIES RELATING TO INFORMATION SYSTEMS, 
              INCLUDING INTERNET OF THINGS DEVICES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Institute, in consultation 
with such cybersecurity researchers and private sector industry experts 
as the Director considers appropriate, and in consultation with the 
Secretary, shall develop and publish under section 20 of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3) 
guidelines--
            (1) for the reporting, coordinating, publishing, and 
        receiving of information about--
                    (A) a security vulnerability relating to 
                information systems owned or controlled by an agency 
                (including Internet of Things devices owned or 
                controlled by an agency); and
                    (B) the resolution of such security vulnerability; 
                and
            (2) for a contractor providing to an agency an information 
        system (including an Internet of Things device) and any 
        subcontractor thereof at any tier providing such information 
        system to such contractor, on--
                    (A) receiving information about a potential 
                security vulnerability relating to the information 
                system; and
                    (B) disseminating information about the resolution 
                of a security vulnerability relating to the information 
                system.
    (b) Elements.--The guidelines published under subsection (a) 
shall--
            (1) to the maximum extent practicable, be aligned with 
        industry best practices and Standards 29147 and 30111 of the 
        International Standards Organization (or any successor 
        standard) or any other appropriate, relevant, and widely-used 
        standard;
            (2) incorporate guidelines on--
                    (A) receiving information about a potential 
                security vulnerability relating to an information 
                system owned or controlled by an agency (including an 
                Internet of Things device); and
                    (B) disseminating information about the resolution 
                of a security vulnerability relating to an information 
                system owned or controlled by an agency (including an 
                Internet of Things device); and
            (3) be consistent with the policies and procedures produced 
        under section 2009(m) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
        U.S.C. 659(m)).
    (c) Information Items.--The guidelines published under subsection 
(a) shall include example content, on the information items that should 
be reported, coordinated, published, or received pursuant to this 
section by a contractor, or any subcontractor thereof at any tier, 
providing an information system (including Internet of Things device) 
to the Federal Government.
    (d) Oversight.--The Director of OMB shall oversee the 
implementation of the guidelines published under subsection (a).
    (e) Operational and Technical Assistance.--The Secretary, in 
consultation with the Director of OMB, shall administer the 
implementation of the guidelines published under subsection (a) and 
provide operational and technical assistance in implementing such 
guidelines.

SEC. 6. IMPLEMENTATION OF COORDINATED DISCLOSURE OF SECURITY 
              VULNERABILITIES RELATING TO AGENCY INFORMATION SYSTEMS, 
              INCLUDING INTERNET OF THINGS DEVICES.

    (a) Agency Guidelines Required.--Not later than 2 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of OMB, in consultation 
with the Secretary, shall develop and oversee the implementation of 
policies, principles, standards, or guidelines as may be necessary to 
address security vulnerabilities of information systems (including 
Internet of Things devices).
    (b) Operational and Technical Assistance.--Consistent with section 
3553(b) of title 44, United States Code, the Secretary, in consultation 
with the Director of OMB, shall provide operational and technical 
assistance to agencies on reporting, coordinating, publishing, and 
receiving information about security vulnerabilities of information 
systems (including Internet of Things devices).
    (c) Consistency With Guidelines From National Institute of 
Standards and Technology.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
assistance provided under subsection (b) is consistent with applicable 
standards and publications developed by the Director of the Institute.
    (d) Revision of Federal Acquisition Regulation.--The Federal 
Acquisition Regulation shall be revised as necessary to implement the 
provisions under this section.

SEC. 7. CONTRACTOR COMPLIANCE WITH COORDINATED DISCLOSURE OF SECURITY 
              VULNERABILITIES RELATING TO AGENCY INTERNET OF THINGS 
              DEVICES.

    (a) Prohibition on Procurement and Use.--
            (1) In general.--The head of an agency is prohibited from 
        procuring or obtaining, renewing a contract to procure or 
        obtain, or using an Internet of Things device, if the Chief 
        Information Officer of that agency determines during a review 
        required by section 11319(b)(1)(C) of title 40, United States 
        Code, of a contract for such device that the use of such device 
        prevents compliance with the standards and guidelines developed 
        under section 4 or the guidelines published under section 5 
        with respect to such device.
            (2) Simplified acquisition threshold.--Notwithstanding 
        section 1905 of title 41, United States Code, the requirements 
        under paragraph (1) shall apply to a contract or subcontract in 
        amounts not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold.
    (b) Waiver.--
            (1) Authority.--The head of an agency may waive the 
        prohibition under subsection (a)(1) with respect to an Internet 
        of Things device if the Chief Information Officer of that 
        agency determines that--
                    (A) the waiver is necessary in the interest of 
                national security;
                    (B) procuring, obtaining, or using such device is 
                necessary for research purposes; or
                    (C) such device is secured using alternative and 
                effective methods appropriate to the function of such 
                device.
            (2) Agency process.--The Director of OMB shall establish a 
        standardized process for the Chief Information Officer of each 
        agency to follow in determining whether the waiver under 
        paragraph (1) may be granted.
    (c) Reports to Congress.--
            (1) Report.--Every 2 years during the 6-year period 
        beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
        Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
        House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland 
        Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report--
                    (A) on the effectiveness of the process established 
                under subsection (b)(2);
                    (B) that contains recommended best practices for 
                the procurement of Internet of Things devices; and
                    (C) that lists--
                            (i) the number and type of each Internet of 
                        Things device for which a waiver under 
                        subsection (b)(1) was granted during the 2-year 
                        period prior to the submission of the report; 
                        and
                            (ii) the legal authority under which each 
                        such waiver was granted, such as whether the 
                        waiver was granted pursuant to subparagraph 
                        (A), (B), or (C) of such subsection.
            (2) Classification of report.--Each report submitted under 
        this subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
        may include a classified annex that contains the information 
        described under paragraph (1)(C).
    (d) Effective Date.--The prohibition under subsection (a)(1) shall 
take effect 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 8. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE REPORT ON CYBERSECURITY 
              CONSIDERATIONS STEMMING FROM THE CONVERGENCE OF 
              INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, INTERNET OF THINGS, AND 
              OPERATIONAL TECHNOLOGY DEVICES, NETWORKS, AND SYSTEMS.

    (a) Briefing.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Oversight and Reform of 
the House of Representatives, the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate on broader Internet of Things 
efforts, including projects designed to assist in managing potential 
security vulnerabilities associated with the use of traditional 
information technology devices, networks, and systems with--
            (1) Internet of Things devices, networks, and systems; and
            (2) operational technology devices, networks, and systems.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit a report to the 
Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives, the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate 
on broader Internet of Things efforts addressed in subsection (a).

            Passed the House of Representatives September 14, 2020.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
116th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 1668

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To establish minimum security standards for Internet of Things devices 
 owned or controlled by the Federal Government, and for other purposes.
