        H.R.5126

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twenty


                                 An Act


 
    To require individuals fishing for Gulf reef fish to use certain 
               descending devices, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Direct Enhancement of Snapper 
Conservation and the Economy through Novel Devices Act of 2020'' or the 
``DESCEND Act of 2020''.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
    It is the sense of Congress that commercial and recreational 
fishermen (which, for the purpose of this Act shall include charter 
fishing) for Gulf reef fish are expected to use a venting tool or a 
descending device required for possession under section 3 when 
releasing fish that are exhibiting signs of barotrauma. The Secretary 
of Commerce (referred to in this Act as the ``Secretary''), in 
coordination with the Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council, should 
develop and disseminate to fishermen education and outreach materials 
related to proper use of venting tools and descending devices, and 
strongly encourage their use by commercial and recreational fishermen 
when releasing fish that are exhibiting signs of barotrauma.
SEC. 3. REQUIRED POSSESSION OF DESCENDING DEVICES.
    (a) Required Gear in the Gulf Reef Fish Fishery.--Title III of the 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 
1851 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``SEC. 321. REQUIRED POSSESSION OF DESCENDING DEVICES.
    ``(a) Require Gear in the Gulf Reef Fish Fishery.--It shall be 
unlawful for a person on board a commercial or recreational vessel to 
fish for Gulf reef fish in the Gulf of Mexico Exclusive Economic Zone 
without possessing on board the vessel a venting tool or a descending 
device that is rigged and ready for use while fishing is occurring.
    ``(b) Savings Clause.--No provision of this section shall be 
interpreted to affect any program or activity carried out by the Gulf 
Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council established by the Resources and 
Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies 
of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012 (33 U.S.C. 1321 note), or any 
project contained in an approved Restoration Plan developed by any 
Natural Resources Damage Assessment Trustee Implementation Group to 
reduce post-release mortality from barotrauma in Gulf of Mexico Reef 
Fish Recreational Fisheries.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Descending device.--The term `descending device' means an 
    instrument that--
            ``(A) will release fish at a depth sufficient for the fish 
        to be able to recover from the effects of barotrauma;
            ``(B) is a weighted hook, lip clamp, or box that will hold 
        the fish while it is lowered to depth, or another device 
        determined to be appropriate by the Secretary; and
            ``(C) is capable of--
                ``(i) releasing the fish automatically;
                ``(ii) releasing the fish by actions of the operator of 
            the device; or
                ``(iii) allowing the fish to escape on its own.
        ``(2) Venting tool.--The term `venting tool' has the meaning 
    given to it by the Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council.
        ``(3) Gulf reef fish.--The term `Gulf reef fish' means any fish 
    chosen by the Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council that is in 
    the reef Fishery Management Plan for the purposes of this Act.''.
    (b) Civil Penalties.--Section 308(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens 
Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1858(a)) is amended 
by inserting ``or section 321'' after ``section 307''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this Act shall take 
effect 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--Title III of the table of contents of 
the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 
1851 et seq.) is amended by striking the item relating to section 305 
and all that follows through the end of the items relating to such 
title and inserting the following:

``Sec. 305. Other requirements and authority.
``Sec. 306. State jurisdiction.
``Sec. 307. Prohibited acts.
``Sec. 308. Civil penalties and permit sanctions.
``Sec. 309. Criminal offenses.
``Sec. 310. Civil forfeitures.
``Sec. 311. Enforcement.
``Sec. 312. Transition to sustainable fisheries.
``Sec. 313. North Pacific fisheries conservation.
``Sec. 314. Northwest Atlantic Ocean fisheries reinvestment program.
``Sec. 315. Regional Coastal Disaster Assistance, Transition, and 
          Recovery Program.
``Sec. 316. Bycatch Reduction Engineering Program.
``Sec. 317. Shark Feeding.
``Sec. 318. Cooperative Research and Management Program.
``Sec. 319. Herring Study.
``Sec. 320. Restoration Study.
``Sec. 321. Required possession of descending devices.''.

    (e) Sunset.--Five years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 
U.S.C. 1851 et seq.) is amended--
        (1) in the table of contents, by striking the item relating to 
    section 321;
        (2) in section 308(a), by striking ``or section 321''; and
        (3) by striking section 321.
SEC. 4. IMPROVING DISCARD MORTALITY DATA.
    (a) Agreement.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall enter into an agreement with 
the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study and produce a 
report on discard mortality in the Gulf of Mexico reef fish fisheries. 
The study shall include--
        (1) assessment of gaps and biases in reporting of discards and 
    associated discard mortality;
        (2) assessment of uncertainty and likely impacts of such 
    uncertainty in discard mortality;
        (3) assessment of the effectiveness and usage rates of 
    barotrauma-reducing devices;
        (4) recommendations for future research priorities; and
        (5) recommendations for standardized reporting and 
    quantification of discards in the same metric as landings for 
    fisheries under the Gulf of Mexico Reef Fish Fishery Management 
    Plan.
    (b) Deadlines.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the National Academy of Sciences shall complete 
the study required under subsection (a) and transmit the final report 
to the Secretary. Not later than 3 months after receiving the study and 
report in accordance with this subsection, the Secretary shall submit 
the study and report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of 
the House of Representatives.
    (c) Plan.--Not later than 1 year after the Secretary receives the 
study and report required under subsection (a), Secretary and the Gulf 
of Mexico Fishery Management Council shall develop--
        (1) guidance for minimum standards for quantifying and 
    reporting discards and associated mortality in the Gulf of Mexico 
    Reef Fish Fishery Management Plan; and
        (2) a plan to assess and monitor the effectiveness and usage of 
    barotrauma-reducing devices and the impact on discard mortality 
    rates in Gulf of Mexico reef fish fisheries.
    (d) Follow-Up Report.--Not later than 3 years after developing 
minimum standards and developing the assessment and monitoring plan 
under subsection (c), the Secretary shall provide a detailed report on 
implementation to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of 
the House of Representatives.
SEC. 5. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.
    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
