        H.R.4104

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twenty


                                 An Act


 
To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint a coin in commemoration 
   of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Negro Leagues 
                                baseball.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Negro Leagues Baseball Centennial 
Commemorative Coin Act''.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
    The Congress finds the following:
        (1) The year 2020 marks the 100th anniversary of the 
    establishment of the Negro National League, a professional baseball 
    league formed in response to African-American players being banned 
    from the major leagues.
        (2) On February 13, 1920, Andrew ``Rube'' Foster convened a 
    meeting of 8 independent African-American baseball team owners at 
    the Paseo YMCA in Kansas City, Missouri, to form a ``league of 
    their own,'' establishing the Negro National League, the first 
    successful, organized professional African-American baseball league 
    in the United States.
        (3) Soon, additional leagues formed in eastern and southern 
    States.
        (4) The Negro Leagues would operate for 40 years until 1960.
        (5) The story of the Negro Leagues is a story of strong-willed 
    athletes who forged a glorious history in the midst of an 
    inglorious era of segregation in the United States.
        (6) The passion of the Negro Leagues players for the ``National 
    Pastime'' would not only change the game, but also the United 
    States.
        (7) The creation of the Negro Leagues provided a playing field 
    for more than 2,600 African-American and Hispanic baseball players 
    to showcase their world-class baseball abilities.
        (8) The Negro Leagues introduced an exciting brand of baseball 
    that was in stark contrast to Major League Baseball.
        (9) A fast, aggressive style of play attracted black and white 
    fans who sat together to watch those games at a time when it was 
    virtually unheard of to interact socially in such a way.
        (10) Negro Leagues baseball would become a catalyst for 
    economic development across the United States in major urban 
    centers such as Kansas City, St. Louis, New York, Memphis, 
    Baltimore, Washington, DC, Chicago, and Atlanta.
        (11) The Negro Leagues pioneered ``Night Baseball'' in 1930, 5 
    years before Major League Baseball, and would introduce game-
    changing innovations such as shin guards and the batting helmet.
        (12) The Negro Leagues helped make the National Pastime a 
    global game as players from the Negro Leagues--
            (A) were the first people from the United States to play in 
        many Spanish-speaking countries; and
            (B) introduced professional baseball to the Japanese in 
        1927.
        (13) Jackie Robinson, a military veteran and former member of 
    the Negro Leagues' Kansas City Monarchs, would break Major League 
    Baseball's color barrier on April 15, 1947, with the Brooklyn 
    Dodgers, paving the way for other African-American and Hispanic 
    baseball players.
        (14) The Negro Leagues were born out of segregation yet would 
    become a driving force for social change in the United States.
        (15) The Negro Leagues produced future Major League Baseball 
    stars, including Leroy ``Satchel'' Paige, Larry Doby, Willie Mays, 
    Henry Aaron, Ernie Banks, and Roy Campanella.
        (16) The Negro Leagues Baseball Museum was established in 
    Kansas City, Missouri, in 1990--
            (A) to save from extinction a precious piece of Americana 
        and baseball history; and
            (B) to use the many life lessons of the powerful story of 
        triumph over adversity of Negro Leagues players to promote 
        tolerance, diversity, and inclusion.
        (17) In 2006, Congress granted National Designation to the 
    Negro Leagues Baseball Museum, recognizing it as ``America's Home'' 
    for Negro Leagues baseball history.
SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.
    (a) Denominations.--The Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in 
this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall mint and issue the 
following coins:
        (1) $5 gold coins.--Not more than 50,000 $5 coins, which 
    shall--
            (A) weigh 8.359 grams;
            (B) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
            (C) contain not less than 90 percent gold.
        (2) $1 silver coins.--Not more than 400,000 $1 coins, which 
    shall--
            (A) weigh 26.73 grams;
            (B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
            (C) contain not less than 90 percent silver.
        (3) Half-dollar clad coins.--Not more than 400,000 half-dollar 
    coins which shall--
            (A) weigh 11.34 grams;
            (B) have a diameter of 1.205 inches; and
            (C) be minted to the specifications for half-dollar coins 
        contained in section 5112(b) of title 31, United States Code.
    (b) Legal Tender.--The coins minted under this Act shall be legal 
tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, 
United States Code, all coins minted under this Act shall be considered 
to be numismatic items.
SEC. 4. DESIGNS OF COINS.
    (a) Design Requirements.--
        (1) In general.--The designs of the coins minted under this Act 
    shall be emblematic of the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum and its 
    mission to promote tolerance, diversity, and inclusion.
        (2) Designation and inscriptions.--On each coin minted under 
    this Act there shall be--
            (A) a designation of the value of the coin;
            (B) an inscription of the year ``2022''; and
            (C) inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God We 
        Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E Pluribus Unum''.
    (b) Selection.--The designs for the coins minted under this Act 
shall be--
        (1) selected by the Secretary after consultation with the Negro 
    Leagues Baseball Museum and the Commission of Fine Arts; and
        (2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.
SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.
    (a) Quality of Coins.--Coins minted under this Act shall be issued 
in uncirculated and proof qualities.
    (b) Mint Facilities.--Only 1 facility of the United States Mint may 
be used to strike any particular quality of the coins minted under this 
Act.
    (c) Period for Issuance.--The Secretary may issue coins minted 
under this Act only during the 1-year period beginning on January 1, 
2022.
SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.
    (a) Sale Price.--The coins issued under this Act shall be sold by 
the Secretary at a price equal to the sum of--
        (1) the face value of the coins;
        (2) the surcharge provided in section 7(a) with respect to such 
    coins; and
        (3) the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including 
    labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
    marketing, and shipping).
    (b) Bulk Sales.--The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins 
issued under this Act at a reasonable discount.
    (c) Prepaid Orders.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders for 
    the coins minted under this Act before the issuance of such coins.
        (2) Discount.--Sale prices with respect to prepaid orders under 
    paragraph (1) shall be at a reasonable discount.
SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.
    (a) In General.--All sales of coins issued under this Act shall 
include a surcharge of--
        (1) $35 per coin for the $5 coin;
        (2) $10 per coin for the $1 coin; and
        (3) $5 per coin for the half-dollar coin.
    (b) Distribution.--Subject to section 5134(f)(1) of title 31, 
United States Code, all surcharges received by the Secretary from the 
sale of coins issued under this Act shall be promptly paid by the 
Secretary to the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum for educational and 
outreach programs and exhibits.
    (c) Audits.--The Negro Leagues Baseball Museum shall be subject to 
the audit requirements of section 5134(f)(2) of title 31, United States 
Code, with regard to the amounts received under subsection (b).
    (d) Limitation.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), no surcharge may 
be included with respect to the issuance under this Act of any coin 
during a calendar year if, as of the time of such issuance, the 
issuance of such coin would result in the number of commemorative coin 
programs issued during such year to exceed the annual 2 commemorative 
coin program issuance limitation under section 5112(m)(1) of title 31, 
United States Code (as in effect on the date of the enactment of this 
Act). The Secretary of the Treasury may issue guidance to carry out 
this subsection.
SEC. 8. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.
    The Secretary shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure 
that--
        (1) minting and issuing coins under this Act will not result in 
    any net cost to the United States Government; and
        (2) no funds, including applicable surcharges, are disbursed to 
    any recipient designated in section 7 until the total cost of 
    designing and issuing all of the coins authorized by this Act 
    (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead 
    expenses, marketing, and shipping) is recovered by the United 
    States Treasury, consistent with sections 5112(m) and 5134(f) of 
    title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 9. MARKETING AND EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGN.
    The Secretary shall develop and execute a marketing, advertising, 
promotional, and educational program to promote the collecting of the 
coins authorized under this subsection.
  SEC. 10. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.
    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
