        S.1153

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twenty


                                 An Act


 
   To explicitly make unauthorized access to Department of Education 
information technology systems and the misuse of identification devices 
          issued by the Department of Education a criminal act.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Stop Student Debt Relief Scams Act 
of 2019''.
SEC. 2. CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
    (a) In General.--Section 490 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
(20 U.S.C. 1097) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Access to Department of Education Information Technology 
Systems for Fraud, Commercial Advantage, or Private Financial Gain.--
Any person who knowingly uses an access device, as defined in section 
1029(e)(1) of title 18, United States Code, issued to another person or 
obtained by fraud or false statement to access Department information 
technology systems for purposes of obtaining commercial advantage or 
private financial gain, or in furtherance of any criminal or tortious 
act in violation of the Constitution or laws of the United States or of 
any State, shall be fined not more than $20,000, imprisoned for not 
more than 5 years, or both.''.
    (b) Guidance.--The Secretary shall issue guidance regarding the use 
of access devices in a manner that complies with this Act, and the 
amendments made by this Act.
    (c) Effective Date of Penalties.--Notwithstanding section 6, the 
penalties described in section 490(e) of the Higher Education Act of 
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1097), as added by subsection (a), shall take effect 
the day after the date on which the Secretary issues guidance regarding 
the use of access devices, as described in subsection (b).
SEC. 3. LOAN COUNSELING.
    Section 485(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1092(b)) is amended--
        (1) in clause (viii), by striking ``and'' after the semicolon; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
                ``(x) an explanation that--

                    ``(I) the borrower may be contacted during the 
                repayment period by third-party student debt relief 
                companies;
                    ``(II) the borrower should use caution when dealing 
                with those companies; and
                    ``(III) the services that those companies typically 
                provide are already offered to borrowers free of charge 
                through the Department or the borrower's servicer; 
                and''.

SEC. 4. PREVENTION OF IMPROPER ACCESS.
    Section 485B of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1092b) 
is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (e) through (h) as subsections 
    (f) through (i), respectively;
        (2) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in paragraph (5)(C), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (B) in paragraph (6)(C), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(7) preventing access to the data system and any other system 
    used to administer a program under this title by any person or 
    entity for the purpose of assisting a student in managing loan 
    repayment or applying for any repayment plan, consolidation loan, 
    or other benefit authorized by this title, unless such access meets 
    the requirements described in subsection (e).'';
        (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
    ``(e) Requirements for Third-Party Data System Access.--
        ``(1) In general.--As provided in paragraph (7) of subsection 
    (d), an authorized person or entity described in paragraph (2) may 
    access the data system and any other system used to administer a 
    program under this title if that access--
            ``(A) is in compliance with terms of service, information 
        security standards, and a code of conduct which shall be 
        established by the Secretary and published in the Federal 
        Register;
            ``(B) is obtained using an access device (as defined in 
        section 1029(e)(1) of title 18, United States Code) issued by 
        the Secretary to the authorized person or entity; and
            ``(C) is obtained without using any access device (as 
        defined in section 1029(e)(1) of title 18, United States Code) 
        issued by the Secretary to a student, borrower, or parent.
        ``(2) Authorized person or entity.--An authorized person or 
    entity described in this paragraph means--
            ``(A) a guaranty agency, eligible lender, or eligible 
        institution, or a third-party organization acting on behalf of 
        a guaranty agency, eligible lender, or eligible institution, 
        that is in compliance with applicable Federal law (including 
        regulations and guidance); or
            ``(B) a licensed attorney representing a student, borrower, 
        or parent, or another individual who works for a Federal, 
        State, local, or Tribal government or agency, or for a 
        nonprofit organization, providing financial or student loan 
        repayment counseling to a student, borrower, or parent, if--
                ``(i) that attorney or other individual has never 
            engaged in unfair, deceptive, or abusive practices, as 
            determined by the Secretary;
                ``(ii) that attorney or other individual does not work 
            for an entity that has engaged in unfair, deceptive, or 
            abusive practices (including an entity that is owned or 
            operated by a person or entity that engaged in such 
            practices), as determined by the Secretary;
                ``(iii) system access is provided only through a 
            separate point of entry; and
                ``(iv) the attorney or other individual has consent 
            from the relevant student, borrower, or parent to access 
            the system.''; and
        (4) in subsection (f)(1), as redesignated by paragraph (1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``student and parent'' 
        and inserting ``student, borrower, and parent'';
            (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as 
        subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively;
            (C) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
            ``(C) the reduction in improper data system access as 
        described in subsection (d)(7);''; and
            (D) by striking subparagraph (E), as redesignated by 
        subparagraph (B), and inserting the following:
            ``(E) any protocols, codes of conduct, terms of service, or 
        information security standards developed under paragraphs (6) 
        or (7) of subsection (d) during the preceding fiscal year.''.
SEC. 5. AGENCY PREVENTION AND DETECTION.
    Section 141(b)(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1018(b)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C) Taking action to prevent and address the improper use 
        of access devices, as described in section 485B(d)(7), 
        including by--
                ``(i) detecting common patterns of improper use of any 
            system that processes payments on Federal Direct Loans or 
            other Department information technology systems;
                ``(ii) maintaining a reporting system for contractors 
            involved in the processing of payments on Federal Direct 
            Loans in order to allow those contractors to alert the 
            Secretary of potentially improper use of Department 
            information technology systems;
                ``(iii) proactively contacting Federal student loan 
            borrowers whose Federal student loan accounts demonstrate a 
            likelihood of improper use in order to warn those borrowers 
            of suspicious activity or potential fraud regarding their 
            Federal student loan accounts; and
                ``(iv) providing clear and simple disclosures in 
            communications with borrowers who are applying for or 
            requesting assistance with Federal Direct Loan programs 
            (including assistance or applications regarding income-
            driven repayment, forbearance, deferment, consolidation, 
            rehabilitation, cancellation, and forgiveness) to ensure 
            that borrowers are aware that the Department will never 
            require borrowers to pay for such assistance or 
            applications.''.
SEC. 6. EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall take effect on 
the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
