        S.3758

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twenty


                                 An Act


 
To amend the Klamath Basin Water Supply Enhancement Act of 2000 to make 
                     certain technical corrections.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. KLAMATH BASIN WATER SUPPLY ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2000 TECHNICAL 
CORRECTIONS.
    Section 4(b) of the Klamath Basin Water Supply Enhancement Act of 
2000 (114 Stat. 2222; 132 Stat. 3887) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
                (i) by striking ``Pursuant to the reclamation laws and 
            subject'' and inserting ``Subject''; and
                (ii) by striking ``may'' and inserting ``is authorized 
            to''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, including 
        conservation and efficiency measures, land idling, and use of 
        groundwater,'' after ``administer programs'';
        (2) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting ``and'' after the 
    semicolon at the end;
        (3) by redesignating the second paragraph (4) (relating to the 
    effect of the subsection) as paragraph (5); and
        (4) in paragraph (5) (as so redesignated)--
            (A) by striking subparagraph (B);
            (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
        a period; and
            (C) by striking ``the Secretary--'' and all that follows 
        through ``to develop'' in subparagraph (A) and inserting ``the 
        Secretary to develop''.
SEC. 2. CONTINUED USE OF PICK-SLOAN MISSOURI BASIN PROGRAM PROJECT USE 
POWER BY THE KINSEY IRRIGATION COMPANY AND THE SIDNEY WATER USERS 
IRRIGATION DISTRICT.
    (a) Authorization.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law and 
subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior (acting 
through the Commissioner of Reclamation) shall continue to treat the 
irrigation pumping units known as the ``Kinsey Irrigation Company'' in 
Custer County, Montana and the ``Sidney Water Users Irrigation 
District'' in Richland County, Montana, or any successor to the Kinsey 
Irrigation Company or Sidney Water Users Irrigation District, as 
irrigation pumping units of the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program for 
the purposes of wheeling, administration, and payment of project use 
power, including the applicability of provisions relating to the 
treatment of costs beyond the ability to pay under section 9 of the Act 
of December 22, 1944 (commonly known as the ``Flood Control Act of 
1944'') (58 Stat. 891, chapter 665).
    (b) Limitation.--The quantity of power to be provided to the Kinsey 
Irrigation Company and the Sidney Water Users Irrigation District 
(including any successor to the Kinsey Irrigation Company or the Sidney 
Water Users Irrigation District) under subsection (a) may not exceed 
the maximum quantity of power provided to the Kinsey Irrigation Company 
and the Sidney Water Users Irrigation District under the applicable 
contract for electric service in effect on the date of enactment of 
this Act.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
