        S.2730

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twenty


                                 An Act


 
  To establish and ensure an inclusive and transparent Drone Advisory 
                               Committee.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Drone Advisory Committee for the 
21st Century Act''.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
    It is the Sense of Congress that:
        (1) Due to the ever-increasing use of Unmanned Aircraft Systems 
    in the agriculture, forestry, and rangeland sectors, as well as the 
    inherently different uses in less populated parts of the nation, 
    membership of the Drone Advisory Committee established by the 
    Federal Aviation Administration should, to the extent practicable, 
    include direct representatives from county and tribal government, 
    agriculture, forestry, and rangeland interests.
        (2) Full transparency in the work of the Drone Advisory 
    Committee is vital to ensuring the public can effectively 
    participate and contribute to the development of sound Federal 
    policies. The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration 
    should, to the maximum extent practicable, ensure the work of the 
    Drone Advisory Committee is shared with and easily accessible to 
    the public and shall ensure transparency and openness in the manner 
    in which the affairs of the Committee are conducted.
SEC. 3. DRONE ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP.
        (1) In general.--The Federal Aviation Administration shall take 
    appropriate steps to encourage direct representation of county and 
    tribal governments as well as agriculture, forestry, rangeland 
    sectors, and other rural interests on the Drone Advisory Committee.
        (2) Public participation.--To the maximum extent practicable, 
    the Administrator shall include public participation in the process 
    of nominating individuals for membership on the Committee.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
