        S.3587

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twenty


                                 An Act


 
 To require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the 
   accessibility of websites of the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
         individuals with disabilities, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Veterans Affairs 
Website Accessibility Act of 2019''.
SEC. 2. STUDY ON THE ACCESSIBILITY OF WEBSITES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
VETERANS AFFAIRS TO INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES.
    (a) Study.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall conduct a study of 
all websites of the Department of Veterans Affairs to determine whether 
such websites are accessible to individuals with disabilities in 
accordance with section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 
U.S.C. 794d).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after completing the study 
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report on such study.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A list of each website described in subsection (a) that is 
    not accessible to individuals with disabilities in accordance with 
    section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d).
        (2) For each website identified in the list under paragraph 
    (1)--
            (A) the plan of the Secretary to bring the website into 
        compliance with the requirements of section 508 of the 
        Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d); and
            (B) a description of the barriers to bringing the website 
        into compliance with the requirements of such section, 
        including any barriers relating to vacant positions at the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (d) Website Defined.--In this section, the term ``website'' 
includes the following:
        (1) A file attached to a website.
        (2) A web-based application.
        (3) A kiosk at a medical facility of the Department of Veterans 
    Affairs, the use of which is required to check in for scheduled 
    appointments.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
