        S.490

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twenty


                                 An Act


 
To designate a mountain ridge in the State of Montana as ``B-47 Ridge''.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``B-47 Ridge Designation Act''.
SEC. 2. DESIGNATION OF B-47 RIDGE, MONTANA.
    (a) Designation.--
        (1) In general.--The unnamed mountain ridge located at 
    4514'40.89" N., 11043'38.75" W. that runs south and west of 
    Emigrant Peak in the Absaroka Range in the State of Montana, which 
    is the approximate site of a crash of a B-47, shall be known and 
    designated as ``B-47 Ridge''.
        (2) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
    document, paper, or other record of the United States to the ridge 
    described in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be a reference to 
    ``B-47 Ridge''.
    (b) Authorization for Plaque.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture may authorize the 
    installation and maintenance of a plaque on B-47 Ridge that--
            (A) memorializes the 1962 crash of the B-47 aircraft at the 
        site; and
            (B) may include the names of the victims of the crash.
        (2) Authorized terms and conditions.--The Secretary of 
    Agriculture may include any terms and conditions in the 
    authorization for a plaque under paragraph (1) that the Secretary 
    of Agriculture determines to be necessary.
        (3) Funding.--No Federal funds may be used to design, procure, 
    install, or maintain the plaque authorized under paragraph (1).

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
