        S.2193

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twenty


                                 An Act


 
 To require the Administrator of General Services to issue guidance to 
clarify that Federal agencies may pay by charge card for the charging of 
        Federal electric motor vehicles, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Charging Helps Agencies Realize 
General Efficiencies Act'' or the ``CHARGE Act''.
SEC. 2. PAYMENT BY CHARGE CARD FOR CHARGING FEDERAL ELECTRIC MOTOR 
VEHICLES.
    (a) Definitions.--In this Act--
        (1) the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of 
    General Services;
        (2) the term ``charge card''--
            (A) means a card, plate, coupon book, or other means 
        existing for the purpose of obtaining money, property, labor, 
        or services; and
            (B) includes--
                (i) a card issued under the GSA SmartPay program; and
                (ii) a Fleet Services card;
        (3) the term ``covered electric motor vehicle'' means a 
    passenger carrier that is--
            (A) a passenger motor vehicle; and
            (B) an electric motor vehicle;
        (4) the term ``electric motor vehicle'' has the meaning given 
    the term in section 601 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 
    13271);
        (5) the term ``electric motor vehicle charging station'' means 
    a battery-charging station that permits the transfer of electric 
    energy (by conductive or inductive means) to a battery or other 
    storage device in an electric motor vehicle; and
        (6) the terms ``Federal agency'' and ``passenger carrier'' have 
    the meanings given those terms in section 1344(h) of title 31, 
    United States Code.
    (b) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall issue guidance to clarify that 
each Federal agency may, in accordance with section 1344 of title 31, 
United States Code--
        (1) charge a covered electric motor vehicle at a commercial 
    electric motor vehicle charging station; and
        (2) pay for a transaction described in paragraph (1) with a 
    charge card.
    (c) Issuance of Charge Cards.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall issue to each 
Federal agency a charge card for each covered electric motor vehicle of 
the Federal agency that may be used by an officer or employee of the 
Federal agency to pay for charging the covered motor vehicle in 
accordance with the guidance issued under subsection (b).

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
