        S.1342

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twenty


                                 An Act


 
   To require the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere to update 
    periodically the environmental sensitivity index products of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for each coastal area of 
                the Great Lakes, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Great Lakes Environmental 
Sensitivity Index Act of 2020''.
SEC. 2. UPDATE TO ENVIRONMENTAL SENSITIVITY INDEX PRODUCTS OF NATIONAL 
OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION FOR GREAT LAKES.
    (a) Update Required for Environmental Sensitivity Index Products 
for Great Lakes.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere 
shall commence updating the environmental sensitivity index products of 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for each coastal 
area of the Great Lakes.
    (b) Periodic Updates for Environmental Sensitivity Index Products 
Generally.--Subject to the availability of appropriations and the 
priorities set forth in subsection (c), the Under Secretary shall--
        (1) periodically update the environmental sensitivity index 
    products of the Administration; and
        (2) endeavor to do so not less frequently than once every 7 
    years.
    (c) Priorities.--When prioritizing geographic areas to update 
environmental sensitivity index products, the Under Secretary shall 
consider--
        (1) the age of existing environmental sensitivity index 
    products for the areas;
        (2) the occurrence of extreme events, be it natural or man-
    made, which have significantly altered the shoreline or ecosystem 
    since the last update;
        (3) the natural variability of shoreline and coastal 
    environment; and
        (4) the volume of vessel traffic and general vulnerability to 
    spilled pollutants.
    (d) Environmental Sensitivity Index Product Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``environmental sensitivity index product'' means a 
map or similar tool that is utilized to identify sensitive shoreline, 
coastal or offshore, resources prior to an oil spill event in order to 
set baseline priorities for protection and plan cleanup strategies, 
typically including information relating to shoreline type, biological 
resources, and human use resources.
    (e) Funding.--Funds to carry out the activities under this section 
shall be derived from amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
Under Secretary that are enacted after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
