        S.163

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and nineteen


                                 An Act


 
   To prevent catastrophic failure or shutdown of remote diesel power 
    engines due to emission control devices, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Alaska Remote Generator Reliability 
and Protection Act''.
SEC. 2. REVISION OF REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency shall revise section 60.4216(c) of title 40, Code of Federal 
Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act), by 
striking ``that was not certified'' and all that follows through 
``compared to engine-out emissions'' and inserting ``must have that 
engine certified as meeting at least Tier 3 PM standards''.
    (b) Emissions and Energy Reliability Study.--Not later than 1 year 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Energy, shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives a report assessing options for the Federal Government 
to assist remote areas in the State of Alaska in meeting the energy 
needs of those areas in an affordable and reliable manner using--
        (1) existing emissions control technology; or
        (2) other technology that achieves emissions reductions similar 
    to the technology described in paragraph (1).

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
