116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1790

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
   for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
   military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2020''.

SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into seven divisions as 
follows:
            (1) Division A--Department of Defense Authorizations.
            (2) Division B--Military Construction Authorizations.
            (3) Division C--Department of Energy National Security 
        Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
            (4) Division D--Funding Tables.
            (5) Division E--Additional Provisions.
            (6) Division F--Intelligence Authorizations for Fiscal Year 
        2020.
            (7) Division G--Intelligence Authorizations for Fiscal Year 
        2018 and 2019.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.
            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Sense of Senate on Army's approach to Capability Drops 1 and 
                            2 of the Distributed Common Ground System-
                            Army program.
Sec. 112. Authority of the Secretary of the Army to waive certain 
                            limitations related to the Distributed 
                            Common Ground System-Army Increment 1.
                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Modification of prohibition on availability of funds for Navy 
                            waterborne security barriers.
Sec. 122. Capabilities based assessment for naval vessels that carry 
                            fixed-wing aircraft.
Sec. 123. Ford-class aircraft carrier cost limitation baselines.
Sec. 124. Design and construction of amphibious transport dock 
                            designated LPD-31.
Sec. 125. LHA Replacement Amphibious Assault Ship Program.
Sec. 126. Limitation on availability of funds for the Littoral Combat 
                            Ship.
Sec. 127. Limitation on the next new class of Navy large surface 
                            combatants.
Sec. 128. Refueling and complex overhauls of the U.S.S. John C. Stennis 
                            and U.S.S. Harry S. Truman.
Sec. 129. Report on carrier wing composition.
                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 141. Requirement to align Air Force fighter force structure with 
                            National Defense Strategy and reports.
Sec. 142. Requirement to establish the use of an Agile DevOps software 
                            development solution as an alternative for 
                            Joint Strike Fighter Autonomic Logistics 
                            Information System.
Sec. 143. Report on feasibility of multiyear contract for procurement 
                            of JASSM-ER missiles.
Sec. 144. Air Force aggressor squadron modernization.
Sec. 145. Air Force plan for Combat Rescue Helicopter fielding.
Sec. 146. Military type certification for AT-6 and A-29 light attack 
                            experimentation aircraft.
       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 151. Limitation on availability of funds for communications 
                            systems lacking certain resiliency 
                            features.
Sec. 152. F-35 sustainment cost.
Sec. 153. Economic order quantity contracting authority for F-35 Joint 
                            Strike Fighter program.
Sec. 154. Repeal of tactical unmanned vehicle common data link 
                            requirement.
         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Development and acquisition strategy to procure secure, low 
                            probability of detection data link network 
                            capability.
Sec. 212. Establishment of secure next-generation wireless network (5G) 
                            infrastructure for the Nevada Test and 
                            Training Range and base infrastructure.
Sec. 213. Limitation and report on Indirect Fire Protection Capability 
                            Increment 2 enduring capability.
Sec. 214. Electromagnetic spectrum sharing research and development 
                            program.
Sec. 215. Sense of the Senate on the Advanced Battle Management System.
Sec. 216. Modification of proof of concept commercialization program.
Sec. 217. Modification of Defense quantum information science and 
                            technology research and development 
                            program.
Sec. 218. Technology and National Security Fellowship.
Sec. 219. Direct Air Capture and Blue Carbon Removal Technology 
                            Program.
                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 231. National security emerging biotechnologies research and 
                            development program.
Sec. 232. Cyber science and technology activities roadmap and reports.
Sec. 233. Requiring certain microelectronics products and services meet 
                            trusted supply chain and operational 
                            security standards.
Sec. 234. Technical correction to Global Research Watch Program.
Sec. 235. Additional technology areas for expedited access to technical 
                            talent.
Sec. 236. Sense of the Senate and periodic briefings on the security 
                            and availability of fifth-generation (5G) 
                            wireless network technology and production.
Sec. 237. Transfer of Combating Terrorism Technical Support Office.
Sec. 238. Briefing on cooperative defense technology programs and risks 
                            of technology transfer to China or Russia.
Sec. 239. Modification of authority for prizes for advanced technology 
                            achievements.
Sec. 240. Use of funds for Strategic Environmental Research Program, 
                            Environmental Security Technical 
                            Certification Program, and Operational 
                            Energy Capability Improvement.
Sec. 241. Funding for the Sea-Launched Cruise Missile-Nuclear analysis 
                            of alternatives.
Sec. 242. Review and assessment pertaining to transition of Department 
                            of Defense-originated dual-use technology.
                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.
                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Use of operational energy cost savings of Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 312. Use of proceeds from sales of electrical energy generated 
                            from geothermal resources.
Sec. 313. Energy resilience programs and activities.
Sec. 314. Native American Indian lands environmental mitigation 
                            program.
Sec. 315. Reimbursement of Environmental Protection Agency for certain 
                            costs in connection with the Twin Cities 
                            Army Ammunition Plant, Minnesota.
Sec. 316. Prohibition on use of perfluoroalkyl substances and 
                            polyfluoroalkyl substances for land-based 
                            applications of firefighting foam.
Sec. 317. Transfer authority for funding of study and assessment on 
                            health implications of per- and 
                            polyfluoroalkyl substances contamination in 
                            drinking water by Agency for Toxic 
                            Substances and Disease Registry.
Sec. 318. Cooperative agreements with States to address contamination 
                            by perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
                            substances.
Sec. 319. Modification of Department of Defense environmental 
                            restoration authorities to include Federal 
                            Government facilities used by National 
                            Guard.
Sec. 320. Budgeting of Department of Defense relating to extreme 
                            weather.
Sec. 321. Pilot program for availability of working-capital funds for 
                            increased combat capability through energy 
                            optimization.
Sec. 322. Report on efforts to reduce high energy intensity at military 
                            installations.
Sec. 323. Technical and grammatical corrections and repeal of obsolete 
                            provisions relating to energy.
                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 331. Requirement for memoranda of understanding between the Air 
                            Force and the Navy regarding depot 
                            maintenance.
Sec. 332. Modification to limitation on length of overseas forward 
                            deployment of naval vessels.
                          Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 341. Report on modernization of Joint Pacific Alaska Range 
                            Complex.
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 351. Strategy to improve infrastructure of certain depots of the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 352. Limitation on use of funds regarding the basing of KC-46A 
                            aircraft outside the continental United 
                            States.
Sec. 353. Prevention of encroachment on military training routes and 
                            military operations areas.
Sec. 354. Expansion and enhancement of authorities on transfer and 
                            adoption of military animals.
Sec. 355. Limitation on contracting relating to Defense Personal 
                            Property Program.
Sec. 356. Prohibition on subjective upgrades by commanders of unit 
                            ratings in monthly readiness reporting on 
                            military units.
Sec. 357. Extension of temporary installation reutilization authority 
                            for arsenals, depots, and plants.
Sec. 358. Clarification of food ingredient requirements for food or 
                            beverages provided by the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 359. Technical correction to deadline for transition to Defense 
                            Readiness Reporting System Strategic.
              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the 
                            reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on 
                            active duty for operational support.
Sec. 415. Authorized strengths for Marine Corps Reserves on active 
                            duty.
              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.
                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Repeal of codified specification of authorized strengths of 
                            certain commissioned officers on active 
                            duty.
Sec. 502. Maker of original appointments in a regular or reserve 
                            component of commissioned officers 
                            previously subject to original appointment 
                            in other type of component.
Sec. 503. Furnishing of adverse information on officers to promotion 
                            selection boards.
Sec. 504. Limitation on number of officers recommendable for promotion 
                            by promotion selection boards.
Sec. 505. Expansion of authority for continuation on active duty of 
                            officers in certain military specialties 
                            and career tracks.
Sec. 506. Higher grade in retirement for officers following reopening 
                            of determination or certification of 
                            retired grade.
Sec. 507. Availability on the Internet of certain information about 
                            officers serving in general or flag officer 
                            grades.
                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Repeal of requirement for review of certain Army Reserve 
                            officer unit vacancy promotions by 
                            commanders of associated active duty units.
                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

Sec. 515. Modification of authorities on management of deployments of 
                            members of the Armed Forces and related 
                            unit operating and personnel tempo matters.
Sec. 516. Repeal of requirement that parental leave be taken in one 
                            increment.
Sec. 517. Digital engineering as a core competency of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 518. Modification of notification on manning of afloat naval 
                            forces.
Sec. 519. Report on expansion of the Close Airman Support team approach 
                            of the Air Force to the other Armed Forces.
            Subtitle D--Military Justice and Related Matters

PART I--Matters Relating to Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of 
                        Sexual Assault Generally

Sec. 521. Department of Defense-wide policy and military department-
                            specific programs on reinvigoration of the 
                            prevention of sexual assault involving 
                            members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 522. Enactment and expansion of policy on withholding of initial 
                            disposition authority for certain offenses 
                            under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
Sec. 523. Training for Sexual Assault Initial Disposition Authorities 
                            on exercise of disposition authority for 
                            sexual assault and collateral offenses.
Sec. 524. Expansion of responsibilities of commanders for victims of 
                            sexual assault committed by another member 
                            of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 525. Training for commanders in the Armed Forces on their role in 
                            all stages of military justice in 
                            connection with sexual assault.
Sec. 526. Notice to victims of alleged sexual assault of pendency of 
                            further administrative action following a 
                            determination not to refer to trial by 
                            court-martial.
Sec. 527. Safe to report policy applicable across the Armed Forces.
Sec. 528. Report on expansion of Air Force safe to report policy across 
                            the Armed Forces.
Sec. 529. Proposal for separate punitive article in the Uniform Code of 
                            Military Justice on sexual harassment.
Sec. 530. Treatment of information in Catch a Serial Offender Program 
                            for certain purposes.
Sec. 531. Report on preservation of recourse to restricted report on 
                            sexual assault for victims of sexual 
                            assault following certain victim or third-
                            party communications.
Sec. 532. Authority for return of personal property to victims of 
                            sexual assault who file a Restricted Report 
                            before conclusion of related proceedings.
Sec. 533. Extension of Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, 
                            Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault 
                            in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 534. Defense Advisory Committee for the Prevention of Sexual 
                            Misconduct.
Sec. 535. Independent reviews and assessments on race and ethnicity in 
                            the investigation, prosecution, and defense 
                            of sexual assault in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 536. Report on mechanisms to enhance the integration and 
                            synchronization of activities of Special 
                            Victim Investigation and Prosecution 
                            personnel with activities of military 
                            criminal investigative organizations.
Sec. 537. Comptroller General of the United States report on 
                            implementation by the Armed Forces of 
                            recent statutory requirements on sexual 
                            assault prevention and response in the 
                            military.
               PART II--Special Victims' Counsel Matters

Sec. 541. Legal assistance by Special Victims' Counsel for victims of 
                            alleged domestic violence offenses.
Sec. 542. Other Special Victims' Counsel matters.
Sec. 543. Availability of Special Victims' Counsel at military 
                            installations.
Sec. 544. Training for Special Victims' Counsel on civilian criminal 
                            justice matters in the States of the 
                            military installations to which assigned.
   PART III--Boards for Correction of Military Records and Discharge 
                          Review Board Matters

Sec. 546. Repeal of 15-year statute of limitations on motions or 
                            requests for review of discharge or 
                            dismissal from the Armed Forces.
Sec. 547. Reduction in required number of members of discharge review 
                            boards.
Sec. 548. Enhancement of personnel on boards for the correction of 
                            military records and discharge review 
                            boards.
Sec. 549. Inclusion of intimate partner violence and spousal abuse 
                            among supporting rationales for certain 
                            claims for corrections of military records 
                            and discharge review.
Sec. 550. Advice and counsel of trauma experts in review by boards for 
                            correction of military records and 
                            discharge review boards of certain claims.
Sec. 551. Training of members of boards for correction of military 
                            records and discharge review boards on 
                            sexual trauma, intimate partner violence, 
                            spousal abuse, and related matters.
Sec. 552. Limitations and requirements in connection with separations 
                            for members of the Armed Forces who suffer 
                            from mental health conditions in connection 
                            with a sex-related, intimate partner 
                            violence-related, or spousal-abuse offense.
Sec. 553. Liberal consideration of evidence in certain claims by boards 
                            for the correction of military records and 
                            discharge review boards.
                PART IV--Other Military Justice Matters

Sec. 555. Expansion of pre-referral matters reviewable by military 
                            judges and military magistrates in the 
                            interest of efficiency in military justice.
Sec. 556. Policies and procedures on registration at military 
                            installations of civilian protective orders 
                            applicable to members of the Armed Forces 
                            assigned to such installations and certain 
                            other individuals.
Sec. 557. Increase in number of digital forensic examiners for the 
                            military criminal investigative 
                            organizations.
Sec. 558. Survey of members of the Armed Forces on their experiences 
                            with military investigations and military 
                            justice.
Sec. 559. Public access to dockets, filings, and court records of 
                            courts-martial or other records of trial of 
                            the military justice system.
Sec. 560. Pilot programs on defense investigators in the military 
                            justice system.
Sec. 561. Report on military justice system involving alternative 
                            authority for determining whether to prefer 
                            or refer changes for felony offenses under 
                            the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
Sec. 562. Report on standardization among the military departments in 
                            collection and presentation of information 
                            on matters within the military justice 
                            system.
Sec. 563. Report on establishment of guardian ad litem program for 
                            certain military dependents who are a 
                            victim or witness of offenses under the 
                            Uniform Code of Military Justice involving 
                            abuse or exploitation.
   Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Transition, and Resilience

Sec. 566. Consecutive service of service obligation in connection with 
                            payment of tuition for off-duty training or 
                            education for commissioned officers of the 
                            Armed Forces with any other service 
                            obligations.
Sec. 567. Authority for detail of certain enlisted members of the Armed 
                            Forces as students at law schools.
Sec. 568. Connections of members retiring or separating from the Armed 
                            Forces with community-based organizations 
                            and related entities.
Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

             PART I--Defense Dependents' Education Matters

Sec. 571. Continuation of authority to assist local educational 
                            agencies that benefit dependents of members 
                            of the Armed Forces and Department of 
                            Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 572. Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.
Sec. 573. Ri'katak Guest Student Program at United States Army 
                            Garrison-Kwajalein Atoll.
               PART II--Military Family Readiness Matters

Sec. 576. Two-year extension of authority for reimbursement for State 
                            licensure and certification costs of 
                            spouses of members of the Armed Forces 
                            arising from relocation to another State.
Sec. 577. Improvement of occupational license portability for military 
                            spouses through interstate compacts.
Sec. 578. Modification of responsibility of the Office of Special Needs 
                            for individualized service plans for 
                            members of military families with special 
                            needs.
Sec. 579. Clarifying technical amendment on direct hire authority for 
                            the Department of Defense for childcare 
                            services providers for Department child 
                            development centers.
Sec. 580. Pilot program on information sharing between Department of 
                            Defense and designated relatives and 
                            friends of members of the Armed Forces 
                            regarding the experiences and challenges of 
                            military service.
Sec. 581. Briefing on use of Family Advocacy Programs to address 
                            domestic violence.
                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 585. Authorization for award of the Medal of Honor to John J. 
                            Duffy for acts of valor in Vietnam.
Sec. 586. Standardization of honorable service requirement for award of 
                            military decorations.
Sec. 587. Authority to award or present a decoration not previously 
                            recommended in a timely fashion following a 
                            review requested by Congress.
Sec. 588. Authority to make posthumous and honorary promotions and 
                            appointments following a review requested 
                            by Congress.
                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 591. Military funeral honors matters.
Sec. 592. Inclusion of homeschooled students in Junior Reserve 
                            Officers' Training Corps units.
Sec. 593. Sense of Senate on the Junior Reserve Officers' Training 
                            Corps.
          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Expansion of eligibility for exceptional transitional 
                            compensation for dependents to dependents 
                            of current members.
           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain expiring bonus and special pay 
                            authorities.
            Subtitle C--Travel and Transportation Allowances

Sec. 621. Extension of pilot program on a Government lodging program.
Sec. 622. Reinvestment of travel refunds by the Department of Defense.
     Subtitle D--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

Sec. 631. Contributions to Department of Defense Military Retirement 
                            Fund based on pay costs per Armed Force 
                            rather than on Armed Forces-wide basis.
Sec. 632. Modification of authorities on eligibility for and 
                            replacement of gold star lapel buttons.
   Subtitle E--Commissary and Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality 
                        Benefits and Operations

Sec. 641. Defense resale system matters.
Sec. 642. Treatment of fees on services provided as supplemental funds 
                            for commissary operations.
Sec. 643. Procurement by commissary stores of certain locally sourced 
                            products.
                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Contraception coverage parity under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 702. TRICARE payment options for retirees and their dependents.
Sec. 703. Lead level screening and testing for children.
Sec. 704. Provision of blood testing for firefighters of Department of 
                            Defense to determine exposure to 
                            perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
                            substances.
                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Modification of organization of military health system.
Sec. 712. Support by military health system of medical requirements of 
                            combatant commands.
Sec. 713. Tours of duty of commanders or directors of military 
                            treatment facilities.
Sec. 714. Expansion of strategy to improve acquisition of managed care 
                            support contracts under TRICARE program.
Sec. 715. Establishment of regional medical hubs to support combatant 
                            commands.
Sec. 716. Monitoring of adverse event data on dietary supplement use by 
                            members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 717. Enhancement of recordkeeping with respect to exposure by 
                            members of the Armed Forces to certain 
                            occupational and environmental hazards 
                            while deployed overseas.
                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 721. Extension and clarification of authority for Joint Department 
                            of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
                            Medical Facility Demonstration Fund.
Sec. 722. Appointment of non-ex officio members of the Henry M. Jackson 
                            Foundation for the Advancement of Military 
                            Medicine.
Sec. 723. Officers authorized to command Army dental units.
Sec. 724. Establishment of Academic Health System in National Capital 
                            Region.
Sec. 725. Provision of veterinary services by veterinary professionals 
                            of the Department of Defense in 
                            emergencies.
Sec. 726. Five-year extension of authority to continue the DOD-VA 
                            Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund.
Sec. 727. Pilot Program on civilian and military partnerships to 
                            enhance interoperability and medical surge 
                            capability and capacity of National 
                            Disaster Medical System.
Sec. 728. Modification of requirements for longitudinal medical study 
                            on blast pressure exposure of members of 
                            the Armed Forces.
  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

           Subtitle A--Contracting and Acquisition Provisions

Sec. 801. Pilot program on intellectual property evaluation for 
                            acquisition programs.
Sec. 802. Pilot program to use alpha contracting teams for complex 
                            requirements.
Sec. 803. Modification of written approval requirement for task and 
                            delivery order single contract awards.
Sec. 804. Extension of authority to acquire products and services 
                            produced in countries along a major route 
                            of supply to Afghanistan.
Sec. 805. Modification of Director of Operational Test and Evaluation 
                            report.
Sec. 806. Department of Defense use of fixed-price contracts.
Sec. 807. Pilot program to accelerate contracting and pricing 
                            processes.
Sec. 808. Pilot program to streamline decision-making processes for 
                            weapon systems.
Sec. 809. Documentation of market research related to commercial item 
                            determinations.
Sec. 810. Modification to small purchase threshold exception to 
                            sourcing requirements for certain articles.
 Subtitle B--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 821. Naval vessel certification required before Milestone B 
                            approval.
                  Subtitle C--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 831. Modernization of acquisition processes to ensure integrity of 
                            industrial base.
Sec. 832. Assessment of precision-guided missiles for reliance on 
                            foreign-made microelectronic components.
Sec. 833. Mitigating risks related to foreign ownership, control, or 
                            influence of Department of Defense 
                            contractors or subcontractors.
Sec. 834. Extension and revisions to Never Contract With the Enemy.
                   Subtitle D--Small Business Matters

Sec. 841. Reauthorization and improvement of Department of Defense 
                            Mentor-Protege Program.
Sec. 842. Modification of justification and approval requirement for 
                            certain Department of Defense contracts.
     Subtitle E--Provisions Related to Software-Driven Capabilities

Sec. 851. Improved management of information technology and cyberspace 
                            investments.
Sec. 852. Special pathways for rapid acquisition of software 
                            applications and upgrades.
                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 861. Notification of Navy procurement production disruptions.
Sec. 862. Modification to acquisition authority of the Commander of the 
                            United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 863. Prohibition on operation or procurement of foreign-made 
                            unmanned aircraft systems.
Sec. 864. Prohibition on contracting with persons that have business 
                            operations with the Maduro regime.
Sec. 865. Comptroller General of the United States report on Department 
                            of Defense efforts to combat human 
                            trafficking through procurement practices.
      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

901. Headquarters activities of the Department of Defense matters.
902. Responsibility of Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                            Sustainment for Procurement Technical 
                            Assistance Cooperative Agreement Program.
903. Return to Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense 
                            of responsibility for business systems and 
                            related matters.
904. Senior Military Advisor for Cyber Policy and Deputy Principal 
                            Cyber Advisor.
905. Limitation on transfer of Strategic Capabilities Office.
Subtitle B--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

911. Assistant Secretaries of the military departments for Energy, 
                            Installations, and Environment.
912. Repeal of conditional designation of Explosive Ordnance Disposal 
                            Corps as a basic branch of the Army.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

921. Exclusion from limitations on personnel in the Office of the 
                            Secretary of Defense and Department of 
                            Defense headquarters of fellows appointed 
                            under the John S. McCain Defense Fellows 
                            Program.
922. Report on resources to implement the civilian casualty policy of 
                            the Department of Defense.
                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Modification of required elements of annual reports on 
                            emergency and extraordinary expenses of the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 1003. Inclusion of military construction projects in annual 
                            reports on unfunded priorities of the Armed 
                            Forces and the combatant commands.
Sec. 1004. Prohibition on delegation of responsibility for submittal to 
                            Congress of Out-Year Unconstrained Total 
                            Munitions Requirements and Out-Year 
                            Inventory numbers.
Sec. 1005. Element in annual reports on the Financial Improvement and 
                            Audit Remediation Plan on activities with 
                            respect to classified programs.
Sec. 1006. Modification of semiannual briefings on the consolidated 
                            corrective action plan of the Department of 
                            Defense for financial management 
                            information.
Sec. 1007. Update of authorities and renaming of Department of Defense 
                            Acquisition Workforce Development Fund.
                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

Sec. 1011. Modification of authority to support a unified counterdrug 
                            and counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Sec. 1012. Two-year extension of authority for joint task forces to 
                            provide support to law enforcement agencies 
                            conducting counter-terrorism activities.
                Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1016. Modification of authority to purchase vessels using funds in 
                            National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1017. Senior Technical Authority for each naval vessel class.
Sec. 1018. Permanent authority for sustaining operational readiness of 
                            Littoral Combat Ships on extended 
                            deployment.
                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1021. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
                            release of individuals detained at United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
                            to the United States.
Sec. 1022. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to construct or 
                            modify facilities in the United States to 
                            house detainees transferred from United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1023. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
                            release of individuals detained at United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
                            to certain countries.
Sec. 1024. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to close or 
                            relinquish control of United States Naval 
                            Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1025. Authority to transfer individuals detained at United States 
                            Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the 
                            United States temporarily for emergency or 
                            critical medical treatment.
Sec. 1026. Chief Medical Officer at United States Naval Station, 
                            Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1031. Clarification of authority of military commissions under 
                            chapter 47A of title 10, United States 
                            Code, to punish contempt.
Sec. 1032. Comprehensive Department of Defense policy on collective 
                            self-defense.
Sec. 1033. Oversight of Department of Defense execute orders.
Sec. 1034. Prohibition on ownership or trading of stocks in certain 
                            companies by Department of Defense officers 
                            and employees.
Sec. 1035. Policy regarding the transition of data and applications to 
                            the cloud.
Sec. 1036. Modernization of inspection authorities applicable to the 
                            National Guard and extension of inspection 
                            authority to the Chief of the National 
                            Guard Bureau.
Sec. 1037. Enhancement of authorities on forfeiture of Federal benefits 
                            by the National Guard.
Sec. 1038. Modernization of authorities on property and fiscal officers 
                            of the National Guard.
Sec. 1039. Limitation on placement by the Under Secretary of Defense 
                            for Personnel and Readiness of work with 
                            federally funded research and development 
                            centers.
Sec. 1040. Termination of requirement for Department of Defense 
                            facility access clearances for joint 
                            ventures composed of previously-cleared 
                            entities.
Sec. 1041. Designation of Department of Defense Strategic Arctic Ports.
Sec. 1042. Extension of National Security Commission on Artificial 
                            Intelligence.
Sec. 1043. Authority to transfer funds for Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup.
Sec. 1044. Limitation on use of funds to house children separated from 
                            parents.
Sec. 1045. Use of funds for defense of the Armed Forces and United 
                            States citizens against attack by foreign 
                            hostile forces.
                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1051. Modification of annual reporting requirements on defense 
                            manpower.
Sec. 1052. Report on Department of Defense efforts to implement a force 
                            planning process in support of 
                            implementation of the 2018 National Defense 
                            Strategy.
Sec. 1053. Extension of annual reports on civilian casualties in 
                            connection with United States military 
                            operations.
Sec. 1054. Report on joint force plan for implementation of strategies 
                            of the Department of Defense for the 
                            Arctic.
Sec. 1055. Report on use of Northern Tier bases in implementation of 
                            Arctic strategy of the United States.
Sec. 1056. Report on the Department of Defense plan for mass-casualty 
                            disaster response operations in the Arctic.
Sec. 1057. Annual reports on approval of employment or compensation of 
                            retired general or flag officers by foreign 
                            governments for Emoluments Clause purposes.
Sec. 1058. Transmittal to Congress of requests for assistance received 
                            by the Department of Defense from other 
                            departments.
Sec. 1059. Semiannual report on Consolidated Adjudication Facility of 
                            the Defense Counterintelligence and 
                            Security Agency.
Sec. 1060 Comptroller General of the United States report on post-
                            government employment of former Department 
                            of Defense officials.
Subtitle G--Treatment of Contaminated Water Near Military Installations

Sec. 1071. Short title.
Sec. 1072. Definitions.
Sec. 1073. Provision of water uncontaminated with perfluorooctanoic 
                            acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctane sulfonate 
                            (PFOS) for agricultural purposes.
Sec. 1074. Acquisition of real property by Air Force.
Sec. 1075. Remediation plan.
                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 1081. Revision to authorities relating to mail service for members 
                            of the Armed Forces and Department of 
                            Defense civilians overseas.
Sec. 1082. Access to and use of military post offices by United States 
                            citizens employed overseas by the North 
                            Atlantic Treaty Organization who perform 
                            functions in support of military operations 
                            of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 1083. Guarantee of residency for spouses of members of uniformed 
                            services.
Sec. 1084. Extension of requirement for briefings on the national 
                            biodefense strategy.
Sec. 1085. Extension of National Commission on Military Aviation 
                            Safety.
                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

Sec. 1101. Modification of temporary assignments of Department of 
                            Defense employees to a private-sector 
                            organization.
Sec. 1102. Modification of number of available appointments for certain 
                            agencies under personnel management 
                            authority to attract experts in science and 
                            engineering.
Sec. 1103. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
                            allowances, benefits, and gratuities to 
                            civilian personnel on official duty in a 
                            combat zone.
Sec. 1104. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation 
                            on premium pay and aggregate limitation on 
                            pay for Federal civilian employees working 
                            overseas.
Sec. 1105. Reimbursement of Federal employees for Federal, State, and 
                            local income taxes incurred during travel, 
                            transportation, and relocation.
             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. Extension of support of special operations for irregular 
                            warfare.
Sec. 1202. Extension of authority for cross servicing agreements for 
                            loan of personnel protection and personnel 
                            survivability equipment in coalition 
                            operations.
Sec. 1203. Two-year extension of program authority for Global Security 
                            Contingency Fund.
Sec. 1204. Modification of reporting requirement for use of funds for 
                            security cooperation programs and 
                            activities.
Sec. 1205. Institutional legal capacity building initiative for foreign 
                            defense forces.
Sec. 1206. Department of Defense support for stabilization activities 
                            in national security interest of the United 
                            States.
        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
                            provide defense services to the military 
                            and security forces of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1212. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1213. Extension of Commanders' Emergency Response Program.
Sec. 1214. Extension and modification of reimbursement of certain 
                            coalition nations for support provided to 
                            United States military operations.
Sec. 1215. Support for reconciliation activities led by the Government 
                            of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1216. Sense of Senate on special immigrant visa program for Afghan 
                            allies.
         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

Sec. 1221. Modification of authority to provide assistance to vetted 
                            Syrian groups.
Sec. 1222. Extension of authority and limitation on use of funds to 
                            provide assistance to counter the Islamic 
                            State of Iraq and Syria.
Sec. 1223. Extension and modification of authority to support 
                            operations and activities of the Office of 
                            Security Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1224. Coordinator of United States Government activities and 
                            matters in connection with detainees who 
                            are members of the Islamic State of Iraq 
                            and Syria.
Sec. 1225. Report on lessons learned from efforts to liberate Mosul and 
                            Raqqah from control of the Islamic State of 
                            Iraq and Syria.
   Subtitle D--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

Sec. 1231. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
                            of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1232. Prohibition on use of funds for withdrawal of Armed Forces 
                            from Europe in the event of United States 
                            withdrawal from the North Atlantic Treaty.
Sec. 1233. Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the 
                            United States and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1234. Modification and extension of Ukraine Security Assistance 
                            Initiative.
Sec. 1235. Extension of authority for training for Eastern European 
                            national security forces in the course of 
                            multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1236. Limitation on transfer of F-35 aircraft to the Republic of 
                            Turkey.
Sec. 1237. Modifications of briefing, notification, and reporting 
                            requirements relating to non-compliance by 
                            the Russian Federation with its obligations 
                            under the INF Treaty.
Sec. 1238. Extension and modification of security assistance for Baltic 
                            nations for joint program for 
                            interoperability and deterrence against 
                            aggression.
Sec. 1239. Report on North Atlantic Treaty Organization Readiness 
                            Initiative.
Sec. 1240. Reports on contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
                            Organization.
Sec. 1241. Future years plans for European Deterrence Initiative.
Sec. 1242. Modification of reporting requirements relating to the Open 
                            Skies Treaty.
Sec. 1243. Report on nuclear weapons of the Russian Federation and 
                            nuclear modernization of the People's 
                            Republic of China.
Sec. 1244. Sense of Senate on the 70th anniversary of the North 
                            Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Sec. 1245. Sense of Senate on United States force posture in Europe and 
                            the Republic of Poland.
Sec. 1246. Sense of Senate on United States partnership with the 
                            Republic of Georgia.
        Subtitle E--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

Sec. 1251. Limitation on use of funds to reduce the total number of 
                            members of the Armed Forces in the 
                            territory of the Republic of Korea.
Sec. 1252. Expansion of Indo-Pacific Maritime Security Initiative.
Sec. 1253. Modification of annual report on military and security 
                            developments involving the People's 
                            Republic of China.
Sec. 1254. Report on resourcing United States defense requirements for 
                            the Indo-Pacific region.
Sec. 1255. Report on distributed lay-down of United States forces in 
                            the Indo-Pacific region.
Sec. 1256. Sense of Senate on the United States-Japan alliance and 
                            defense cooperation.
Sec. 1257. Sense of Senate on enhancement of the United States-Taiwan 
                            defense relationship.
Sec. 1258. Sense of Senate on United States-India defense relationship.
Sec. 1259. Sense of Senate on security commitments to the Governments 
                            of Japan and the Republic of Korea and 
                            trilateral cooperation among the United 
                            States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea.
Sec. 1260. Sense of Senate on enhanced cooperation with Pacific Island 
                            countries to establish open-source 
                            intelligence fusion centers in the Indo-
                            Pacific region.
Sec. 1261. Sense of Senate on enhancing defense and security 
                            cooperation with the Republic of Singapore.
                          Subtitle F--Reports

Sec. 1271. Report on cost imposition strategy.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1281. NATO Special Operations Headquarters.
Sec. 1282. Modifications of authorities relating to acquisition and 
                            cross-servicing agreements.
Sec. 1283. Modification of authority for United States-Israel anti-
                            tunnel cooperation activities.
Sec. 1284. United States-Israel cooperation to counter unmanned aerial 
                            systems.
Sec. 1285. Modification of initiative to support protection of national 
                            security academic researchers from undue 
                            influence and other security threats.
Sec. 1286. Independent assessment of human rights situation in 
                            Honduras.
Sec. 1287. United States Central Command posture review.
Sec. 1288. Reports on expenses incurred for in-flight refueling of 
                            Saudi coalition aircraft conducting 
                            missions relating to civil war in Yemen.
Sec. 1289. Sense of Senate on security concerns with respect to leasing 
                            arrangements for the Port of Haifa in 
                            Israel.
                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Funding allocations for Department of Defense Cooperative 
                            Threat Reduction Program.
                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.
                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

Sec. 1411. Modification of prohibition on acquisition of sensitive 
                            materials from non-allied foreign nations.
                Subtitle C--Armed Forces Retirement Home

Sec. 1421. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
                            Home.
Sec. 1422. Expansion of eligibility for residence at the Armed Forces 
                            Retirement Home.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 1431. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
                            Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
                            Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for 
                            Captain James A. Lovell Health Care Center, 
                            Illinois.
   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

         Subtitle A--Authorization of Additional Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1503. Procurement.
Sec. 1504. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1505. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1506. Military personnel.
Sec. 1507. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1508. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1509. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1510. Defense Health Program.
                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer authority.
     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

                   PART I--United States Space Force

Sec. 1601. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy.
Sec. 1602. Principal Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force for 
                            Space Acquisition and Integration.
Sec. 1603. Military space forces within the Air Force.
Sec. 1604. Redesignation of Air Force Space Command as United States 
                            Space Force.
Sec. 1605. Assignment of personnel to the National Reconnaissance 
                            Office for mission needs.
Sec. 1606. Report on establishment of position of Under Secretary of 
                            the Air Force for Space.
Sec. 1607. Report on enhanced integration of capabilities of the 
                            National Security Agency, the National 
                            Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and the 
                            United States Space Command for joint 
                            operations.
Sec. 1608. Limitation on availability of funds.
                      PART II--Other Space Matters

Sec. 1611. Repeal of requirement to establish Space Command as a 
                            subordinate unified command of the United 
                            States Strategic Command.
Sec. 1612. Program to enhance and improve launch support and 
                            infrastructure.
Sec. 1613. Modification of enhancement of positioning, navigation, and 
                            timing capacity.
Sec. 1614. Modification of term of Commander of Air Force Space 
                            Command.
Sec. 1615. Annual report on Space Command and Control program.
Sec. 1616. Requirements for phase 2 of acquisition strategy for 
                            National Security Space Launch program.
  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-related Activities

Sec. 1621. Redesignation of Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
                            as Under Secretary of Defense for 
                            Intelligence and Security.
Sec. 1622. Repeal of certain requirements relating to integration of 
                            Department of Defense intelligence, 
                            surveillance, and reconnaissance 
                            capabilities.
Sec. 1623. Improving the onboarding methodology for certain 
                            intelligence personnel.
Sec. 1624. Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency activities 
                            on facilitating access to local criminal 
                            records historical data.
                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-related Matters

Sec. 1631. Reorientation of Big Data Platform program.
Sec. 1632. Zero-based review of Department of Defense cyber and 
                            information technology personnel.
Sec. 1633. Study on improving cyber career paths in the Navy.
Sec. 1634. Framework to enhance cybersecurity of the United States 
                            defense industrial base.
Sec. 1635. Role of Chief Information Officer in improving enterprise-
                            wide cybersecurity.
Sec. 1636. Quarterly assessments of the readiness of cyber forces.
Sec. 1637. Control and analysis of Department of Defense data stolen 
                            through cyberspace.
Sec. 1638. Accreditation standards and processes for cybersecurity and 
                            information technology products and 
                            services.
Sec. 1639. Extension of authorities for Cyberspace Solarium Commission.
Sec. 1640. Modification of elements of assessment required for 
                            termination of dual-hat arrangement for 
                            Commander of the United States Cyber 
                            Command.
Sec. 1641. Use of National Security Agency cybersecurity expertise to 
                            support acquisition of commercial 
                            cybersecurity products.
Sec. 1642. Study on future cyber warfighting capabilities of Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 1643. Authority to use operation and maintenance funds for cyber 
                            operations-peculiar capability development 
                            projects.
Sec. 1644. Expansion of authority for access and information relating 
                            to cyberattacks on Department of Defense 
                            operationally critical contractors.
Sec. 1645. Briefing on memorandum of understanding relating to joint 
                            operational planning and control of cyber 
                            attacks of national scale.
Sec. 1646. Study to determine the optimal strategy for structuring and 
                            manning elements of the Joint Force 
                            Headquarters-Cyber organizations, Joint 
                            Mission Operations Centers, and Cyber 
                            Operations-Integrated Planning Elements.
Sec. 1647. Cyber governance structures and Principal Cyber Advisors on 
                            military cyber force matters.
Sec. 1648. Designation of test networks for testing and accreditation 
                            of cybersecurity products and services.
Sec. 1649. Consortia of universities to advise Secretary of Defense on 
                            cybersecurity matters.
                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1661. Modification of authorities relating to nuclear command, 
                            control, and communications system.
Sec. 1662. Expansion of officials required to conduct biennial 
                            assessments of delivery platforms for 
                            nuclear weapons and nuclear command and 
                            control system.
Sec. 1663. Conforming amendment to Council on Oversight of the National 
                            Leadership Command, Control, and 
                            Communications System.
Sec. 1664. Prohibition on reduction of the intercontinental ballistic 
                            missiles of the United States.
Sec. 1665. Briefing on long-range standoff weapon and sea-launched 
                            cruise missile.
Sec. 1666. Sense of the Senate on industrial base for Ground-Based 
                            Strategic Deterrent program.
Sec. 1667. Sense of the Senate on nuclear deterrence commitments of the 
                            United States.
                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1671. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli 
                            cooperative missile defense program co-
                            development and co-production.
Sec. 1672. Expansion of national missile defense policy and program 
                            redesignation.
Sec. 1673. Acceleration of the deployment of persistent space-based 
                            sensor architecture.
Sec. 1674. Nonstandard acquisition processes of Missile Defense Agency.
Sec. 1675. Plan for the Redesigned Kill Vehicle.
Sec. 1676. Report on improving ground-based midcourse defense element 
                            of ballistic missile defense system.
Sec. 1677. Sense of the Senate on recent Missile Defense Agency tests.
Sec. 1678. Sense of the Senate on missile defense technology 
                            development priorities.
Sec. 1679. Publication of environmental impact statement prepared for 
                            certain potential future missile defense 
                            sites.
                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 1681. Matters relating to military operations in the information 
                            environment.
Sec. 1682. Extension of authorization for protection of certain 
                            facilities and assets from unmanned 
                            aircraft.
Sec. 1683. Hard and deeply buried targets.
            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
                            specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.
                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2019 project.
                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2015 project.
Sec. 2306. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2016 project.
Sec. 2307. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2017 project.
Sec. 2308. Additional authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2018 
                            projects.
Sec. 2309. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2019 projects.
           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized Energy Resilience and Conservation Investment 
                            Program projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.
             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
                            construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.
          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
                            closure activities funded through 
                            Department of Defense Base Closure Account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and 
                            closure (BRAC) round.
         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

               Subtitle A--Military Construction Program

Sec. 2801. Military installation resilience plans and projects of 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 2802. Prohibition on use of funds to reduce air base resiliency or 
                            demolish protected aircraft shelters in the 
                            European theater without creating a similar 
                            protection from attack.
Sec. 2803. Prohibition on use of funds to close or return to the host 
                            nation any existing air base.
Sec. 2804. Increased authority for certain unspecified minor military 
                            construction projects.
Sec. 2805. Technical corrections and improvements to installation 
                            resilience.
                      Subtitle B--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2811. Release of interests retained in Camp Joseph T. Robinson, 
                            Arkansas, for use of such land as a 
                            veterans cemetery.
Sec. 2812. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction over certain parcels 
                            of Federal land in Arlington, Virginia.
Sec. 2813. Modification of requirements relating to land acquisition in 
                            Arlington County, Virginia.
Sec. 2814. White Sands Missile Range Land Enhancements.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 2821. Equal treatment of insured depository institutions and 
                            credit unions operating on military 
                            installations.
Sec. 2822. Expansion of temporary authority for acceptance and use of 
                            contributions for certain construction, 
                            maintenance, and repair projects mutually 
                            beneficial to the Department of Defense and 
                            Kuwait military forces.
Sec. 2823. Designation of Sumpter Smith Joint National Guard Base.
Sec. 2824. Prohibition on use of funds to privatize temporary lodging 
                            on installations of Department of Defense.
Sec. 2825. Pilot program to extend service life of roads and runways 
                            under the jurisdiction of the Secretaries 
                            of the military departments.
   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2904. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2905. Disaster recovery projects.
Sec. 2906. Replenishment of certain military constructions funds.
Sec. 2907. Authorization of appropriations.
            TITLE XXX--MILITARY HOUSING PRIVATIZATION REFORM

Sec. 3001. Definitions.
                Subtitle A--Accountability and Oversight

Sec. 3011. Tenant bill of rights for privatized military housing.
Sec. 3012. Designation of Chief Housing Officer for privatized military 
                            housing.
Sec. 3013. Command oversight of military privatized housing as element 
                            of performance evaluations.
Sec. 3014. Consideration of history of landlord in contract renewal 
                            process for privatized military housing.
Sec. 3015. Treatment of breach of contract for privatized military 
                            housing.
Sec. 3016. Uniform code of basic standards for privatized military 
                            housing and plan to conduct inspections and 
                            assessments.
Sec. 3017. Repeal of supplemental payments to lessors and requirement 
                            for use of funds in connection with the 
                            Military Housing Privatization Initiative.
Sec. 3018. Standard for common credentials for health and environmental 
                            inspectors of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3019. Improvement of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3020. Access to maintenance work order system of landlords of 
                            privatized military housing.
Sec. 3021. Access by tenants of privatized military housing to work 
                            order system of landlord.
                   Subtitle B--Prioritizing Families

Sec. 3031. Dispute resolution process for landlord-tenant disputes 
                            regarding privatized military housing and 
                            requests to withhold payments.
Sec. 3032. Suspension of Resident Energy Conservation Program.
Sec. 3033. Access by tenants to historical maintenance information for 
                            privatized military housing.
Sec. 3034. Prohibition on use of call centers outside the United States 
                            for maintenance calls by tenants of 
                            privatized military housing.
Sec. 3035. Radon testing for privatized military housing.
Sec. 3036. Expansion of windows covered by requirement to use window 
                            fall prevention devices in privatized 
                            military housing.
Sec. 3037. Requirements relating to move out and maintenance with 
                            respect to privatized military housing.
                Subtitle C--Long-Term Quality Assurance

Sec. 3041. Development of standardized documentation, templates, and 
                            forms for privatized military housing.
Sec. 3042. Council on privatized military housing.
Sec. 3043. Requirements relating to management of privatized military 
                            housing.
Sec. 3044. Requirements relating to contracts for privatized military 
                            housing.
Sec. 3045. Withholding of incentive fees for landlords of privatized 
                            military housing for failure to remedy a 
                            health or environmental hazard.
Sec. 3046. Expansion of direct hire authority for Department of Defense 
                            for childcare services providers for 
                            Department child development centers to 
                            include direct hire authority for 
                            installation military housing office 
                            personnel.
Sec. 3047. Plan on establishment of Department of Defense jurisdiction 
                            over off-base privatized military housing.
                   Subtitle D--Other Housing Matters

Sec. 3051. Lead-based paint testing and reporting.
Sec. 3052. Satisfaction survey for tenants of military housing.
Sec. 3053. Information on legal services provided to members of the 
                            Armed Forces harmed by health or 
                            environmental hazards at military housing.
Sec. 3054. Mitigation of risks posed by certain items in military 
                            family housing units.
Sec. 3055. Technical correction to certain payments for lessors of 
                            privatized military housing.
Sec. 3056. Pilot program to build and monitor use of single family 
                            homes.
 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.
   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Technical corrections to National Nuclear Security 
                            Administration Act and Atomic Energy 
                            Defense Act.
Sec. 3112. National Nuclear Security Administration Personnel System.
Sec. 3113. Contracting, program management, scientific, engineering, 
                            and technical positions at National Nuclear 
                            Security Administration.
Sec. 3114. Prohibition on use of laboratory-directed research and 
                            development funds for general and 
                            administrative overhead costs.
Sec. 3115. Prohibition on use of funds for advanced naval nuclear fuel 
                            system based on low-enriched uranium.
                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

Sec. 3121. Estimation of costs of meeting defense environmental cleanup 
                            milestones required by consent orders.
Sec. 3122. Extension of suspension of certain assessments relating to 
                            nuclear weapons stockpile.
Sec. 3123. Repeal of requirement for review relating to enhanced 
                            procurement authority.
Sec. 3124. Determination of effect of treaty obligations with respect 
                            to producing tritium.
Sec. 3125. Assessment of high energy density physics.
          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
Sec. 3202. Improvement of management and organization of Defense 
                            Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
Sec. 3203. Membership of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3501. Maritime Administration.
                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.
                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
                            contingency operations.
                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
                            operations.
                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.
                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.
                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.
      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.
                   DIVISION E--ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

                         TITLE LI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 5101. Briefing on plans to increase readiness of B-1 bomber 
                            aircraft.
Sec. 5126. Limitation on availability of funds for the Littoral Combat 
                            Ship.
Sec. 5151. Limitation on availability of funds for communications 
                            systems lacking certain resiliency 
                            features.
         TITLE LII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 5201. Energetics plan.
Sec. 5202. Amendments to research project transaction authorities to 
                            eliminate cost-sharing requirements and 
                            reduce burdens on use.
Sec. 5203. Comparative capabilities of adversaries in artificial 
                            intelligence.
Sec. 5204. Additional amounts for research, development, test, and 
                            evaluation.
Sec. 5205. Briefing on explainable artificial intelligence.
Sec. 5206. Administration of centers for manufacturing innovation 
                            funded by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 5207. Commercial edge computing technologies and best practices 
                            for Department of Defense warfighting 
                            systems.
Sec. 5211. Development and acquisition strategy to procure secure, low 
                            probability of detection data link network 
                            capability.
Sec. 5213. Limitation and report on Indirect Fire Protection Capability 
                            Increment 2 enduring capability.
                 TITLE LIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 5301. Life cycle sustainment annual report for major weapon 
                            systems of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 5302. Sense of Senate on prioritizing survivable logistics for the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 5303. Plan on sustainment of Rough Terrain Container Handler 
                            fleets.
Sec. 5304. Requirement to include foreign language proficiency in 
                            readiness reporting systems of Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 5305. Monitoring of noise from flights and training of EA-18G 
                            Growlers associated with Naval Air Station 
                            Whidbey Island.
Sec. 5306. Sense of Congress on restoration of Tyndall Air Force Base.
Sec. 5318. Cooperative agreements with States to address contamination 
                            by perfluoralkyl and polyflruoroalkyl 
                            substances.
Sec. 5352. Limitation on use of funds regarding the basing of KC-46A 
                            aircraft outside the continental United 
                            States.
              TITLE LIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 5401. Modification of authorized strength of Air Force Reserve 
                            serving on full-time reserve component duty 
                            for administration of the reserves or the 
                            National Guard.
                  TITLE LV--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

Sec. 5501. Annual State report card.
Sec. 5502. Information and opportunities for registration for voting 
                            and absentee ballot requests for members of 
                            the Armed Forces undergoing deployment 
                            overseas.
Sec. 5503. Study on two-way military ballot barcode tracking.
Sec. 5504. Sense of Senate on the honorable and distinguished service 
                            of General Joseph F. Dunford, United States 
                            Marine Corps, to the United States.
Sec. 5505. Participation of other Federal agencies in the SkillBridge 
                            apprenticeship and internship program for 
                            members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 5506. Personnel tempo of the Armed Forces and the United States 
                            Special Operations Command during periods 
                            of inapplicability of high-deployment 
                            limitations.
Sec. 5507. Report and briefing on the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
                            Corps.
Sec. 5508. Report on suicide prevention programs and activities for 
                            members of the Armed Forces and their 
                            families.
Sec. 5509. Sense of Congress on local performance of military accession 
                            physicals.
Sec. 5510. Permanent authority to defer past age 64 the retirement of 
                            chaplains in general and flag officer 
                            grades.
Sec. 5546. Boards for Correction of Military Records and Discharge 
                            Review Board matters.
Sec. 5585. Authorization for award of the Medal of Honor to John J. 
                            Duffy for acts of valor in Vietnam.
Sec. 5587. Authority to award or present a decoration not previously 
                            recommended in a timely fashion following a 
                            review requested by Congress.
          TITLE LVI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

Sec. 5601. Inclusion of certain veterans on temporary disability or 
                            permanent disabled retirement lists in 
                            military adaptive sports programs.
Sec. 5602. Report on extension to members of the reserve components of 
                            the Armed Forces of special and incentive 
                            pays for members of the Armed Forces not 
                            currently payable to members of the reserve 
                            components.
Sec. 5642. Treatment of fees of service provided as supplemental funds 
                            for commissary operations.
                   TITLE LVII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

Sec. 5701. Contraceptive parity under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 5702. Exposure to open burn pits and toxic airborne chemicals as 
                            part of periodic health assessments and 
                            other physical examinations.
Sec. 5703. Preservation of resources of the Army Medical Research and 
                            Materiel Command and treatment of 
                            realignment of such command.
 TITLE LVIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

Sec. 5801. Report on contracts with entities affiliated with the 
                            Government of the People's Republic of 
                            China or the Chinese Communist Party.
Sec. 5802. Documentation of market research related to commercial item 
                            determinations.
Sec. 5803. Analysis of alternatives pursuant to materiel development 
                            decisions.
      TITLE LIX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

Sec. 5901. Institutionalization within Department of Defense of 
                            responsibilities and authorities of the 
                            Chief Management Officer.
Sec. 5902. Allocation of former responsibilities of the Under Secretary 
                            of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
                            Logistics.
                       TITLE LX--GENERAL MATTERS

Sec. 6001. Utilizing significant emissions with innovative 
                            technologies.
Sec. 6002. Reporting regarding cancelled appropriations.
Sec. 6003. Inclusion of progress of the Department of Defense in 
                            achieving auditable financial statements in 
                            annual reports on the Financial Improvement 
                            and Audit Remediation Plan.
Sec. 6004. Exemption from calculation of monthly income, for purposes 
                            of bankruptcy laws, certain payments from 
                            the Department of Veterans Affairs and the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 6005. Silver Star Service Banner Day.
Sec. 6006. Electromagnetic pulses and geomagnetic disturbances.
Sec. 6007. Termination of leases of premises and motor vehicles of 
                            servicemembers who incur catastrophic 
                            injury or illness or die while in military 
                            service.
Sec. 6008. Improvements to Network for Manufacturing Innovation 
                            Program.
Sec. 6009. Regional innovation program.
Sec. 6010. Report on National Guard and United States Northern Command 
                            capacity to meet homeland defense and 
                            security incidents.
Sec. 6011. Comptroller General of the United States report on the 
                            effects of continuing resolutions on 
                            readiness and planning of the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 6012. Integrated public alert and warning system.
Sec. 6013. Report on impact of Liberian nationals on the national 
                            security, foreign policy, and economic and 
                            humanitarian interests of the United States 
                            and a justification for adjustment of 
                            status of qualifying Liberians to that of 
                            lawful permanent residents.
Sec. 6014. Improving quality of information in background investigation 
                            request packages.
Sec. 6015. Limitation on certain rolling stock procurements; 
                            cybersecurity certification for rail 
                            rolling stock and operations.
Sec. 6016. Sense of Congress on the naming of a naval vessel in honor 
                            of Senior Chief Petty Officer Shannon Kent.
Sec. 6017. Authorization of appropriations for Defense Production Act 
                            of 1950.
Sec. 6018. Investment in supply chain security under Defense Production 
                            Act of 1950.
Sec. 6019. Aviation workforce development.
Sec. 6020. Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians of Montana.
Sec. 6021. Pensacola dam and reservoir, Grand River, Oklahoma.
            TITLE LXII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

Sec. 6201. Statement of policy and sense of Senate on Mutual Defense 
                            Treaty with the Republic of the 
                            Philippines.
Sec. 6202. Sense of Senate on enhanced cooperation with Pacific Island 
                            countries to establish open-source 
                            intelligence fusion centers in the Indo-
                            Pacific region.
Sec. 6203. Two-year extension of program authority for Global Security 
                            Contingency Fund.
Sec. 6204. Repeal of prohibition on transfer of articles on the United 
                            States munitions list to the Republic of 
                            Cyprus.
Sec. 6205. United States-India defense cooperation in the Western 
                            Indian Ocean.
Sec. 6206. Expansion of availability of financial assets of Iran to 
                            victims of terrorism.
Sec. 6207. Report on export of certain satellites to entities with 
                            certain beneficial ownership structures.
Sec. 6208. Sense of Congress on Hong Kong port visits.
Sec. 6209. Sense of Congress on policy toward Hong Kong.
Sec. 6210. Extension and modification of limitation on military 
                            cooperation between the United States and 
                            the Russian Federation.
Sec. 6211. Review and report on obligations of the United States under 
                            Taiwan Relations Act.
Sec. 6212. Implementation of the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act with 
                            regard to Taiwan arms sales.
Sec. 6213. North Atlantic Treaty Organization Joint Forces Command.
Sec. 6214. Report on military activities of the Russian Federation and 
                            the People's Republic of China in the 
                            Arctic region.
Sec. 6215. Efforts to ensure meaningful participation of Afghan women 
                            in peace negotiations in Afghanistan.
Sec. 6216. Updated strategy to counter the threat of malign influence 
                            by the Russian Federation and other 
                            countries.
Sec. 6217. Modification of semiannual report on enhancing security and 
                            stability in Afghanistan.
Sec. 6218. Sense of Congress on acquisition by Turkey of S-400 air 
                            defense system.
Sec. 6219. Modification of initiative to support protection of national 
                            security academic researchers from undue 
                            influence and other security threats.
Sec. 6231. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
                            of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 6236. Limitation on transfer of F-35 aircraft to the Republic of 
                            Turkey.
                    TITLE LXIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 6401. Assessment of rare earth supply chain issues.
Sec. 6422. Expansion of eligibility for residence at the Armed Force 
                            Retirement Home.
  TITLE LXV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                     Subtitle A--General Provisions

Sec. 6501. Review of Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Organization 
                            research relating to humanitarian demining 
                            efforts.
                 Subtitle B--Inspectors General Matters

Sec. 6511. Establishment of lead Inspector General for an overseas 
                            contingency operation based on Secretary of 
                            Defense notification.
Sec. 6512. Clarification of authority of Inspectors General for 
                            overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 6513. Employment status of annuitants for Inspectors General for 
                            overseas contingency operations.
    TITLE LXVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

Sec. 6601. Annual report on development of ground-based strategic 
                            deterrent weapon.
Sec. 6602. Sense of Senate on support for a robust and modern ICBM 
                            force to maximize the value of the nuclear 
                            triad of the United States.
Sec. 6603. Reports by military departments on operation of conventional 
                            forces under employment or threat of 
                            employment of nuclear weapons.
Sec. 6604. Reports by United States European Command and United States 
                            Indo-Pacific Command on operation of 
                            certain conventional forces under 
                            employment or threat of employment of 
                            nuclear weapons.
Sec. 6605. Joint assessment of Department of Defense cyber red team 
                            capabilities, capacity, demand, and 
                            requirements.
Sec. 6606. Report on the expanded purview of the Defense 
                            Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
Sec. 6664. Prohibition on reduction of the intercontinental ballistic 
                            missiles of the United States.
  TITLE LXVII--PFAS RELEASE DISCLOSURE, DETECTION, AND SAFE DRINKING 
                            WATER ASSISTANCE

Sec. 6701. Definition of Administrator.
                  Subtitle A--PFAS Release Disclosure

Sec. 6711. Additions to toxics release inventory.
                       Subtitle B--Drinking Water

Sec. 6721. National primary drinking water regulations for PFAS.
Sec. 6722. Monitoring and detection.
Sec. 6723. Enforcement.
Sec. 6724. Drinking water state revolving funds.
                       Subtitle C--PFAS Detection

Sec. 6731. Definitions.
Sec. 6732. Performance standard for the detection of perfluorinated 
                            compounds.
Sec. 6733. Nationwide sampling.
Sec. 6734. Data usage.
Sec. 6735. Collaboration.
Sec. 6736. Authorization of appropriations.
               Subtitle D--Safe Drinking Water Assistance

Sec. 6741. Definitions.
Sec. 6742. Research and coordination plan for enhanced response on 
                            emerging contaminants.
                       Subtitle E--Miscellaneous

Sec. 6751. PFAS data call.
Sec. 6752. Significant new use rule for long-chain PFAS.
Sec. 6753. PFAS destruction and disposal guidance.
Sec. 6754. PFAS research and development.
TITLE LXVIII--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN TRAFFICKERS OF ILLICIT 
                           SYNTHETIC OPIOIDS

Sec. 6801. Short title.
Sec. 6802. Findings.
Sec. 6803. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 6804. Definitions.
    Subtitle A--Sanctions With Respect to Foreign Opioid Traffickers

Sec. 6811. Identification of foreign opioid traffickers.
Sec. 6812. Sense of Congress on international opioid control regime.
Sec. 6813. Imposition of sanctions.
Sec. 6814. Description of sanctions.
Sec. 6815. Waivers.
Sec. 6816. Procedures for judicial review of classified information.
Sec. 6817. Briefings on implementation.
Sec. 6818. Inclusion of additional material in International Narcotics 
                            Control Strategy Report.
    Subtitle B--Commission on Combating Synthetic Opioid Trafficking

Sec. 6821. Commission on combating synthetic opioid trafficking.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 6831. Director of National Intelligence program on use of 
                            intelligence resources in efforts to 
                            sanction foreign opioid traffickers.
Sec. 6832. Department of Defense funding.
Sec. 6833. Department of State funding.
Sec. 6834. Department of the Treasury funding.
Sec. 6835. Termination.
Sec. 6836. Exception relating to importation of goods.
Sec. 6837. Appropriate committees of Congress defined.
 TITLE LXIX--OTTO WARMBIER BANKING RESTRICTIONS INVOLVING NORTH KOREA 
                              ACT OF 2019

Sec. 6901. Short title.
           Subtitle A--Sanctions With Respect to North Korea

Sec. 6911. Findings.
Sec. 6912. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 6913. Definitions.
           PART I--Expansion of Sanctions and Related Matters

Sec. 6921. Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions 
                            that provide financial services to certain 
                            sanctioned persons.
Sec. 6922. Extension of applicability period of proliferation 
                            prevention sanctions.
Sec. 6923. Sense of Congress on identification and blocking of property 
                            of North Korean officials.
Sec. 6924. Modification of report on implementation of United Nations 
                            Security Council resolutions by other 
                            governments.
Sec. 6925. Report on use by the Government of North Korea of beneficial 
                            ownership rules to access the international 
                            financial system.
              PART II--Congressional Review and Oversight

Sec. 6931. Notification of termination or suspension of sanctions.
Sec. 6932. Reports on certain licensing actions.
Sec. 6933. Briefings on implementation and enforcement of sanctions.
Sec. 6934. Report on financial networks and financial methods of the 
                            Government of North Korea.
Sec. 6935. Report on countries of concern with respect to 
                            transshipment, reexportation, or diversion 
                            of certain items to North Korea.
                       PART III--General Matters

Sec. 6941. Rulemaking.
Sec. 6942. Authority to consolidate reports.
Sec. 6943. Waivers, exemptions, and termination.
Sec. 6944. Procedures for review of classified information.
Sec. 6945. Briefing on resourcing of sanctions programs.
Sec. 6946. Briefing on proliferation financing.
                Subtitle B--Divestment From North Korea

Sec. 6951. Authority of State and local governments to divest from 
                            companies that invest in North Korea.
Sec. 6952. Safe harbor for changes of investment policies by asset 
                            managers.
Sec. 6953. Sense of Congress regarding certain ERISA plan investments.
Sec. 6954. Rule of construction.
      Subtitle C--Financial Industry Guidance to Halt Trafficking

Sec. 6961. Short title.
Sec. 6962. Findings.
Sec. 6963. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 6964. Coordination of human trafficking issues by the Office of 
                            Terrorism and Financial Intelligence.
Sec. 6965. Strengthening the role of anti-money laundering and other 
                            financial tools in combating human 
                            trafficking.
Sec. 6966. Sense of Congress on resources to combat human trafficking.
        TITLE LXXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 7801. Prioritization of projects in annual report on unfunded 
                            requirements for laboratory military 
                            construction projects.
Sec. 7802. Prohibition on use of funds to reduce air base resiliency or 
                            demolish protected aircraft shelters in the 
                            European theater without creating a similar 
                            protection from attack.
Sec. 7803. Prohibition on use of funds to close or return to the host 
                            national any existing air base.
Sec. 7804. Report on unfunded requirements for major and minor military 
                            construction projects for child development 
                            centers of the Department of Defense and 
                            increase of maximum amounts for such minor 
                            projects.
Sec. 7805. Modification of authorized uses of certain property conveyed 
                            by the United States in Los Angeles, 
                            California.
      TITLE LXXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 8101. Implementation of common financial reporting system for 
                            nuclear security enterprise.
Sec. 8102. Modification to certain requirements relating to plutonium 
                            pit production capacity.
         TITLE LXXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 8202. Membership of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
                  TITLE LXXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 8500. Ineffectiveness of title XXXV.
Sec. 8501. Short title.
                  Subtitle A--Maritime Administration

Sec. 8511. Authorization of the Maritime Administration.
Sec. 8512. Maritime Security Program.
Sec. 8513. Department of Transportation Inspector General Report.
Sec. 8514. Appointment of candidates attending sponsored preparatory 
                            school.
Sec. 8515. Independent study on the United States Merchant Marine 
                            Academy.
Sec. 8516. General support program.
Sec. 8517. Military to mariner.
Sec. 8518. Salvage recoveries of federally owned cargoes.
Sec. 8519. Salvage recoveries for subrogated ownership of vessels and 
                            cargoes.
Sec. 8520. Port operations, research, and technology.
Sec. 8521. Assessment and report on strategic seaports.
Sec. 8522. Maritime technical assistance program.
Sec. 8523. Requirement for small shipyard grantees.
Sec. 8524. Improvement of National Oceanographic Partnership Program.
Sec. 8525. Improvements to the maritime guaranteed loan program.
Sec. 8526. Technical corrections.
Sec. 8527. United States Merchant Marine Academy's Sexual Assault 
                            Prevention and Response program.
Sec. 8528. Report on vessels for emerging offshore energy 
                            infrastructure.
                     Subtitle B--Maritime SAFE Act

Sec. 8531. Short titles.
Sec. 8532. Definitions.
Sec. 8533. Purposes.
Sec. 8534. Statement of policy.
 PART I--Programs to Combat IUU Fishing and Increase Maritime Security

Sec. 8541. Coordination with international organizations.
Sec. 8542. Engagement of diplomatic missions of the United States.
Sec. 8543. Assistance by Federal agencies to improve law enforcement 
                            within priority regions and priority flag 
                            states.
Sec. 8544. Expansion of existing mechanisms to combat IUU fishing.
Sec. 8545. Improvement of transparency and traceability programs.
Sec. 8546. Technology programs.
Sec. 8547. Savings clause.
   PART II--Establishment of Interagency Working Group on IUU Fishing

Sec. 8551. Interagency Working Group on IUU Fishing.
Sec. 8552. Strategic plan.
Sec. 8553. Reports.
Sec. 8554. Gulf of Mexico IUU Fishing Subworking Group.
 PART III--Combating Human Trafficking in Connection With the Catching 
                   and Processing of Seafood Products

Sec. 8561. Finding.
Sec. 8562. Adding the Secretary of Commerce to the Interagency Task 
                            Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking.
Sec. 8563. Human trafficking in the seafood supply chain report.
                PART IV--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 8571. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 8572. Accounting of funds.
      DIVISION F--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020

Sec. 9001. Short title.
Sec. 9002. Definitions.
                   TITLE XCI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 9101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 9102. Classified schedule of authorizations.
Sec. 9103. Intelligence community management account.
   TITLE XCII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY 
                                 SYSTEM

Sec. 9201. Authorization of appropriations.
              TITLE XCIII--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

           Subtitle A--General Intelligence Community Matters

Sec. 9301. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 9302. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
                            law.
Sec. 9303. Improving the onboarding methodology for certain 
                            intelligence personnel.
Sec. 9304. Intelligence community public-private talent exchange.
Sec. 9305. Expansion of scope of protections for identities of covert 
                            agents.
Sec. 9306. Inclusion of security risks in program management plans 
                            required for acquisition of major systems 
                            in National Intelligence Program.
Sec. 9307. Paid parental leave.
      Subtitle B--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

Sec. 9311. Exclusivity, consistency, and transparency in security 
                            clearance procedures.
Sec. 9312. Limitation on transfer of National Intelligence University.
Sec. 9313. Improving visibility into the security clearance process.
Sec. 9314. Making certain policies and execution plans relating to 
                            personnel clearances available to industry 
                            partners.
      Subtitle C--Inspector General of the Intelligence Community

Sec. 9321. Definitions.
Sec. 9322. Inspector General external review panel.
Sec. 9323. Harmonization of whistleblower processes and procedures.
Sec. 9324. Intelligence community oversight of agency whistleblower 
                            actions.
Sec. 9325. Report on cleared whistleblower attorneys.
                 TITLE XCIV--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 9401. Study on foreign employment of former personnel of 
                            intelligence community.
Sec. 9402. Comprehensive economic assessment of investment in key 
                            United States technologies by companies or 
                            organizations linked to China.
Sec. 9403. Analysis of and periodic briefings on major initiatives of 
                            intelligence community in artificial 
                            intelligence and machine learning.
Sec. 9404. Encouraging cooperative actions to detect and counter 
                            foreign influence operations.
Sec. 9405. Oversight of foreign influence in academia.
Sec. 9406. Director of National Intelligence report on fifth-generation 
                            wireless network technology.
Sec. 9407. Annual report by Comptroller General of the United States on 
                            cybersecurity and surveillance threats to 
                            Congress.
Sec. 9408. Director of National Intelligence assessment of foreign 
                            interference in elections.
Sec. 9409. Study on feasibility and advisability of establishing 
                            Geospatial-Intelligence Museum and learning 
                            center.
Sec. 9410. Report on death of Jamal Khashoggi.
 DIVISION G--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018 AND 2019

Sec. 10001. Short title.
Sec. 10002. Definitions.
                   TITLE CI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 10101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 10102. Classified Schedule of Authorizations.
Sec. 10103. Intelligence Community Management Account.
TITLE CII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 10201. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 10202. Computation of annuities for employees of the Central 
                            Intelligence Agency.
           TITLE CIII--GENERAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

Sec. 10301. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 10302. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized 
                            by law.
Sec. 10303. Modification of special pay authority for science, 
                            technology, engineering, or mathematics 
                            positions and addition of special pay 
                            authority for cyber positions.
Sec. 10304. Modification of appointment of Chief Information Officer of 
                            the Intelligence Community.
Sec. 10305. Director of National Intelligence review of placement of 
                            positions within the intelligence community 
                            on the Executive Schedule.
Sec. 10306. Supply Chain and Counterintelligence Risk Management Task 
                            Force.
Sec. 10307. Consideration of adversarial telecommunications and 
                            cybersecurity infrastructure when sharing 
                            intelligence with foreign governments and 
                            entities.
Sec. 10308. Cyber protection support for the personnel of the 
                            intelligence community in positions highly 
                            vulnerable to cyber attack.
Sec. 10309. Modification of authority relating to management of supply-
                            chain risk.
Sec. 10310. Limitations on determinations regarding certain security 
                            classifications.
Sec. 10311. Joint Intelligence Community Council.
Sec. 10312. Intelligence community information technology environment.
Sec. 10313. Report on development of secure mobile voice solution for 
                            intelligence community.
Sec. 10314. Policy on minimum insider threat standards.
Sec. 10315. Submission of intelligence community policies.
Sec. 10316. Expansion of intelligence community recruitment efforts.
 TITLE CIV--MATTERS RELATING TO ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY

      Subtitle A--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

Sec. 10401. Authority for protection of current and former employees of 
                            the Office of the Director of National 
                            Intelligence.
Sec. 10402. Designation of the program manager-information sharing 
                            environment.
Sec. 10403. Technical modification to the executive schedule.
Sec. 10404. Chief Financial Officer of the Intelligence Community.
Sec. 10405. Chief Information Officer of the Intelligence Community.
                Subtitle B--Central Intelligence Agency

Sec. 10411. Central Intelligence Agency subsistence for personnel 
                            assigned to austere locations.
Sec. 10412. Expansion of security protective service jurisdiction of 
                            the Central Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 10413. Repeal of foreign language proficiency requirement for 
                            certain senior level positions in the 
                            Central Intelligence Agency.
     Subtitle C--Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence of 
                          Department of Energy

Sec. 10421. Consolidation of Department of Energy Offices of 
                            Intelligence and Counterintelligence.
Sec. 10422. Repeal of Department of Energy Intelligence Executive 
                            Committee and budget reporting requirement.
                       Subtitle D--Other Elements

Sec. 10431. Plan for designation of counterintelligence component of 
                            Defense Security Service as an element of 
                            intelligence community.
Sec. 10432. Notice not required for private entities.
Sec. 10433. Framework for roles, missions, and functions of Defense 
                            Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 10434. Establishment of advisory board for National Reconnaissance 
                            Office.
Sec. 10435. Collocation of certain Department of Homeland Security 
                            personnel at field locations.
                       TITLE CV--ELECTION MATTERS

Sec. 10501. Report on cyber attacks by foreign governments against 
                            United States election infrastructure.
Sec. 10502. Review of intelligence community's posture to collect 
                            against and analyze Russian efforts to 
                            influence the Presidential election.
Sec. 10503. Assessment of foreign intelligence threats to Federal 
                            elections.
Sec. 10504. Strategy for countering Russian cyber threats to United 
                            States elections.
Sec. 10505. Assessment of significant Russian influence campaigns 
                            directed at foreign elections and 
                            referenda.
Sec. 10506. Foreign counterintelligence and cybersecurity threats to 
                            Federal election campaigns.
Sec. 10507. Information sharing with State election officials.
Sec. 10508. Notification of significant foreign cyber intrusions and 
                            active measures campaigns directed at 
                            elections for Federal offices.
Sec. 10509. Designation of counterintelligence officer to lead election 
                            security matters.
                     TITLE CVI--SECURITY CLEARANCES

Sec. 10601. Definitions.
Sec. 10602. Reports and plans relating to security clearances and 
                            background investigations.
Sec. 10603. Improving the process for security clearances.
Sec. 10604. Goals for promptness of determinations regarding security 
                            clearances.
Sec. 10605. Security Executive Agent.
Sec. 10606. Report on unified, simplified, Governmentwide standards for 
                            positions of trust and security clearances.
Sec. 10607. Report on clearance in person concept.
Sec. 10608. Budget request documentation on funding for background 
                            investigations.
Sec. 10609. Reports on reciprocity for security clearances inside of 
                            departments and agencies.
Sec. 10610. Intelligence community reports on security clearances.
Sec. 10611. Periodic report on positions in the intelligence community 
                            that can be conducted without access to 
                            classified information, networks, or 
                            facilities.
Sec. 10612. Information sharing program for positions of trust and 
                            security clearances.
Sec. 10613. Report on protections for confidentiality of whistleblower-
                            related communications.
                 TITLE CVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

    Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Russia and Other Foreign Powers

Sec. 10701. Limitation relating to establishment or support of 
                            cybersecurity unit with the Russian 
                            Federation.
Sec. 10702. Report on returning Russian compounds.
Sec. 10703. Assessment of threat finance relating to Russia.
Sec. 10704. Notification of an active measures campaign.
Sec. 10705. Notification of travel by accredited diplomatic and 
                            consular personnel of the Russian 
                            Federation in the United States.
Sec. 10706. Report on outreach strategy addressing threats from United 
                            States adversaries to the United States 
                            technology sector.
Sec. 10707. Report on Iranian support of proxy forces in Syria and 
                            Lebanon.
Sec. 10708. Annual report on Iranian expenditures supporting foreign 
                            military and terrorist activities.
Sec. 10709. Expansion of scope of committee to counter active measures 
                            and report on establishment of Foreign 
                            Malign Influence Center.
                          Subtitle B--Reports

Sec. 10711. Technical correction to Inspector General study.
Sec. 10712. Reports on authorities of the Chief Intelligence Officer of 
                            the Department of Homeland Security.
Sec. 10713. Report on cyber exchange program.
Sec. 10714. Review of intelligence community whistleblower matters.
Sec. 10715. Report on role of Director of National Intelligence with 
                            respect to certain foreign investments.
Sec. 10716. Report on surveillance by foreign governments against 
                            United States telecommunications networks.
Sec. 10717. Biennial report on foreign investment risks.
Sec. 10718. Modification of certain reporting requirement on travel of 
                            foreign diplomats.
Sec. 10719. Semiannual reports on investigations of unauthorized 
                            disclosures of classified information.
Sec. 10720. Congressional notification of designation of covered 
                            intelligence officer as persona non grata.
Sec. 10721. Reports on intelligence community participation in 
                            vulnerabilities equities process of Federal 
                            Government.
Sec. 10722. Inspectors General reports on classification.
Sec. 10723. Reports on global water insecurity and national security 
                            implications and briefing on emerging 
                            infectious disease and pandemics.
Sec. 10724. Annual report on memoranda of understanding between 
                            elements of intelligence community and 
                            other entities of the United States 
                            Government regarding significant 
                            operational activities or policy.
Sec. 10725. Study on the feasibility of encrypting unclassified 
                            wireline and wireless telephone calls.
Sec. 10726. Modification of requirement for annual report on hiring and 
                            retention of minority employees.
Sec. 10727. Reports on intelligence community loan repayment and 
                            related programs.
Sec. 10728. Repeal of certain reporting requirements.
Sec. 10729. Inspector General of the Intelligence Community report on 
                            senior executives of the Office of the 
                            Director of National Intelligence.
Sec. 10730. Briefing on Federal Bureau of Investigation offering 
                            permanent residence to sources and 
                            cooperators.
Sec. 10731. Intelligence assessment of North Korea revenue sources.
Sec. 10732. Report on possible exploitation of virtual currencies by 
                            terrorist actors.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 10741. Public Interest Declassification Board.
Sec. 10742. Securing energy infrastructure.
Sec. 10743. Bug bounty programs.
Sec. 10744. Modification of authorities relating to the National 
                            Intelligence University.
Sec. 10745. Technical and clerical amendments to the National Security 
                            Act of 1947.
Sec. 10746. Technical amendments related to the Department of Energy.
Sec. 10747. Sense of Congress on notification of certain disclosures of 
                            classified information.
Sec. 10748. Sense of Congress on consideration of espionage activities 
                            when considering whether or not to provide 
                            visas to foreign individuals to be 
                            accredited to a United Nations mission in 
                            the United States.
Sec. 10749. Sense of Congress on WikiLeaks.

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.

    In this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United 
States Code.

SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, jointly submitted for printing in the 
Congressional Record by the Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget 
Committees, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage in the House acting first on the conference report 
or amendment between the Houses.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air 
Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4101.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

SEC. 111. SENSE OF SENATE ON ARMY'S APPROACH TO CAPABILITY DROPS 1 AND 
              2 OF THE DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND SYSTEM-ARMY PROGRAM.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Senate approves of the approach of the Army to 
        Capability Drops 1 and 2 of the Distributed Common Ground 
        System-Army program, which has been in compliance with section 
        2377 of title 10, United States Code; and
            (2) the Senate encourages the Under Secretary of Defense 
        for Acquisition and Sustainment and other military departments 
        and commands in the Department of Defense to review the efforts 
        of the Army with Capability Drops 1 and 2 to inform future 
        decisions about how to integrate commercial technology into the 
        Distributed Common Ground System Enterprise and other national 
        security systems.

SEC. 112. AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY TO WAIVE CERTAIN 
              LIMITATIONS RELATED TO THE DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND 
              SYSTEM-ARMY INCREMENT 1.

    Section 113(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2028) is amended by striking 
``Secretary of Defense'' both places it appears and inserting 
``Secretary of the Army''.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

SEC. 121. MODIFICATION OF PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR NAVY 
              WATERBORNE SECURITY BARRIERS.

    Section 130 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``for fiscal year 2019 
        may be obligated or expended to procure legacy waterborne 
        security barriers for Navy ports'' and inserting ``for fiscal 
        year 2019 or fiscal year 2020 may be obligated or expended to 
        procure legacy waterborne security barriers for Navy ports, 
        including as replacements for legacy barriers''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Notification.--Not later than 15 days after an exception is 
made pursuant to subsection (c)(2), the Secretary of the Navy shall 
submit a written notification to the congressional defense committees 
that includes--
            ``(1) the name and position of the government official who 
        determined exigent circumstances exist;
            ``(2) a description of the exigent circumstances; and
            ``(3) a description of how waterborne security will be 
        maintained until new waterborne security barriers are procured 
        and installed.''.

SEC. 122. CAPABILITIES BASED ASSESSMENT FOR NAVAL VESSELS THAT CARRY 
              FIXED-WING AIRCRAFT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall initiate a 
capabilities based assessment to begin the process of identifying 
requirements for the naval vessels that will carry fixed-wing aircraft 
following the ships designated CVN-81 and LHA-9.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment shall--
            (1) conform with the Joint Capabilities Integration and 
        Development System, including Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
        Staff Instruction 5123.01H; and
            (2) consider options for the vessels described under 
        subsection (a) that would enable greater commonality and 
        interoperability of naval aircraft embarked on such naval 
        vessels, including aircraft arresting gear and launch 
        catapults.
    (c) Notification Requirement.--Not later than 15 days after 
initiating the assessment required under subsection (a), the Secretary 
of the Navy shall notify the congressional defense committees of such 
action and the associated schedule for completing the assessment and 
generating an Initial Capabilities Document.

SEC. 123. FORD-CLASS AIRCRAFT CARRIER COST LIMITATION BASELINES.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 633 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 8692. Ford-class aircraft carrier cost limitation baselines
    ``(a) Limitation.--The total amounts obligated or expended from 
funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for 
Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, or for any other procurement 
account, may not exceed the following amounts for the following 
aircraft carriers:
            ``(1) $13,027,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft 
        carrier designated CVN-78.
            ``(2) $11,398,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft 
        carrier designated CVN-79.
            ``(3) $12,202,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft 
        carrier designated CVN-80.
            ``(4) $12,451,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft 
        carrier designated CVN-81.
    ``(b) Adjustment of Limitation Amount.--The Secretary of the Navy 
may adjust an amount set forth in subsection (a) by the following:
            ``(1) The amounts of increases or decreases in costs 
        attributable to economic inflation after September 30, 2019.
            ``(2) The amounts of increases or decreases in costs 
        attributable to compliance with changes in Federal, State, or 
        local laws enacted after September 30, 2019.
            ``(3) The amounts of outfitting costs and post-delivery 
        costs incurred for that ship.
            ``(4) The amounts of increases or decreases in costs of 
        that ship that are attributable to insertion of new technology 
        into that ship, as compared to the technology baseline as it 
        was defined prior to October 1, 2019.
            ``(5) The amounts of increases or decreases to cost 
        required to correct deficiencies that may affect the safety of 
        the ship and personnel or otherwise preclude the ship from safe 
        operations and crew certification.
            ``(6) With respect to the aircraft carrier designated as 
        CVN-78, the amounts of increases or decreases in costs of that 
        ship that are attributable solely to an urgent and unforeseen 
        requirement identified as a result of the shipboard test 
        program.
            ``(7) With respect to the aircraft carrier designated as 
        CVN-79, the amounts of increases not exceeding $100,000,000 if 
        the Chief of Naval Operations determines that achieving the 
        amount set forth in subsection (a)(2) would result in 
        unacceptable reductions to the operational capability of the 
        ship.
    ``(c) Limitation on Technology Insertion Cost Adjustment.--The 
Secretary of the Navy may use the authority under paragraph (4) of 
subsection (b) to adjust the amount set forth in subsection (a) for a 
ship referred to in that subsection with respect to insertion of new 
technology into that ship only if--
            ``(1) the Secretary determines, and certifies to the 
        congressional defense committees, that insertion of the new 
        technology would lower the life-cycle cost of the ship; or
            ``(2) the Secretary determines, and certifies to the 
        congressional defense committees, that insertion of the new 
        technology is required to meet an emerging threat and the 
        Secretary of Defense certifies to those committees that such 
        threat poses grave harm to national security.
    ``(d) Limitation on Shipboard Test Program Cost Adjustment.--The 
Secretary of the Navy may use the authority under paragraph (6) of 
subsection (b) to adjust the amount set forth in subsection (a) for the 
aircraft carrier designated CVN-78 for reasons relating to an urgent 
and unforeseen requirement identified as a result of the shipboard test 
program only if--
            ``(1) the Secretary determines, and certifies to the 
        congressional defense committees, that such requirement was not 
        known before the date of the submittal to Congress of the 
        budget for fiscal year 2020 (as submitted pursuant to section 
        1105 of title 31, United States Code);
            ``(2) the Secretary determines, and certifies to the 
        congressional defense committees, that waiting on an action by 
        Congress to raise the cost cap specified in subsection (a)(1) 
        to account for such requirement will result in a delay in the 
        date of initial operating capability of that ship; and
            ``(3) the Secretary submits to the congressional defense 
        committees a report setting forth a description of such 
        requirement before the obligation of additional funds pursuant 
        to such authority.
    ``(e) Exclusion of Battle and Interim Spares From Cost 
Limitation.--The Secretary of the Navy shall exclude from the 
determination of the amounts set forth in subsection (a), the costs of 
the following items:
            ``(1) CVN-78 class battle spares.
            ``(2) Interim spares.
    ``(f) Written Notice of Change in Amount.--The Secretary of the 
Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees written 
notice of any change in the amount set forth in subsection (a) 
determined to be associated with a cost covered in subsection (b) not 
less than 30 days prior to making such change.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
8691 the following new item:

``Sec.  8692. Ford-class aircraft carrier cost limitation baselines.''.
    (c) Repeal of Superseded Provision.--Section 122 of the John Warner 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 
109-364; 120 Stat. 2104) is repealed.

SEC. 124. DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF AMPHIBIOUS TRANSPORT DOCK 
              DESIGNATED LPD-31.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Navy may enter into a 
contract for the design and construction of the amphibious transport 
dock designated LPD-31 using amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
the Department of Defense for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy.
    (b) Use of Incremental Funding.--With respect to the contract 
entered into under subsection (a), the Secretary may use incremental 
funding to make payments under the contract with amounts authorized to 
be appropriated in fiscal years 2019, 2020, and 2021.
    (c)  Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--The contract 
entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of 
the United States to make a payment under such contract for any fiscal 
year after fiscal year 2020 is subject to the availability of 
appropriations for that purpose for such fiscal year.

SEC. 125. LHA REPLACEMENT AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT SHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) Authority to Use Incremental Funding.--The Secretary of the 
Navy may enter into and incrementally fund a contract for detail design 
and construction of the LHA replacement ship designated LHA 9 and, 
subject to subsection (b), funds for payments under the contract may be 
provided from amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, for fiscal years 2019 
through 2025.
    (b) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for any subsequent 
fiscal year is subject to the availability of appropriations for that 
purpose for such subsequent fiscal year.
    (c) Repeal of Obsolete Authority.--Section 125 of the John Warner 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 
109-364; 120 Stat. 2106) is repealed.

SEC. 126. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE LITTORAL COMBAT 
              SHIP.

    (a) Limitation.--None of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense 
for fiscal year 2020 may be used to exceed the total procurement 
quantity listed in revision five of the Littoral Combat Ship 
acquisition strategy unless the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment submits to the congressional defense 
committees the certification described in subsection (b).
    (b) Certification.--The certification described in this subsection 
is a certification by the Under Secretary that awarding a contract for 
the procurement of a Littoral Combat Ship that exceeds the total 
procurement quantity listed in revision five of the Littoral Combat 
Ship acquisition strategy--
            (1) is in the national security interests of the United 
        States;
            (2) will not result in exceeding the low-rate initial 
        production quantity approved in the Littoral Combat Ship 
        acquisition strategy in effect as of the date of the 
        certification; and
            (3) is necessary to maintain a full and open competition 
        for the Guided Missile Frigate (FFG(X)) with a single source 
        award in fiscal year 2020.
    (c) Definition.--The term ``revision five of the Littoral Combat 
Ship acquisition strategy'' means the fifth revision of the Littoral 
Combat Ship acquisition strategy approved by the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment on March 26, 2018.

SEC. 127. LIMITATION ON THE NEXT NEW CLASS OF NAVY LARGE SURFACE 
              COMBATANTS.

    (a) In General.--Milestone B approval may not be granted for the 
next new class of Navy large surface combatants unless the class of 
Navy large surface combatants incorporates prior to such approval--
            (1) design changes identified during the full duration of 
        the combat system ship qualification trials and operational 
        test periods of the first Arleigh Burke-class destroyer in the 
        Flight III configuration to complete such events; and
            (2) final results of test programs of engineering 
        development models or prototypes for critical systems specified 
        by the Senior Technical Authority pursuant to section 8669b of 
        title 10, United States Code, as added by section 1017 of this 
        Act, in their final form, fit, and function and in a realistic 
        environment, which shall include a land-based engineering site 
        if the propulsion system will utilize integrated electric power 
        technology, including electric drive propulsion.
    (b) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Navy may not release a detail 
design or construction request for proposals or obligate funds from the 
Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy account for the next new class of 
Navy large surface combatants until the class of Navy large surface 
combatants receives Milestone B approval and the milestone decision 
authority notifies the congressional defense committees, in writing, of 
the actions taken to comply with the requirements under subsection (a).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``Milestone B approval'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 2366(e)(7) of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) The term ``milestone decision authority'' means the 
        official within the Department of Defense designated with the 
        overall responsibility and authority for acquisition decisions 
        for the program, including authority to approve entry of the 
        program into the next phase of the acquisition process.
            (3) The term ``large surface combatants'' means Navy 
        surface ships that are designed primarily to engage in attacks 
        against airborne, surface, subsurface, and shore targets, 
        excluding frigates and littoral combat ships.

SEC. 128. REFUELING AND COMPLEX OVERHAULS OF THE U.S.S. JOHN C. STENNIS 
              AND U.S.S. HARRY S. TRUMAN.

    (a) Refueling and Complex Overhaul.--The Secretary of the Navy 
shall carry out the nuclear refueling and complex overhaul of the 
U.S.S. John C. Stennis (CVN-74) and U.S.S. Harry S. Truman (CVN-75).
    (b) Use of Incremental Funding.--With respect to any contract 
entered into under subsection (a) for the nuclear refueling and complex 
overhauls of the U.S.S. John C. Stennis (CVN-74) and U.S.S. Harry S. 
Truman (CVN-75), the Secretary may use incremental funding for a period 
not to exceed six years after advance procurement funds for such 
nuclear refueling and complex overhaul effort are first obligated.
    (c) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--Any contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2020 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for that later fiscal year.

SEC. 129. REPORT ON CARRIER WING COMPOSITION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Secretary of the 
Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
the optimal composition of the carrier air wing in 2030 and 2040, 
including alternative force design concepts.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) Analysis and justification for the Navy's stated goal 
        of a 50/50 mix of 4th and 5th generation aircraft for 2030.
            (2) Analysis and justification for an optimal mix of 
        carrier aircraft for 2040.
            (3) A plan for incorporating unmanned aerial vehicles and 
        associated communication capabilities to effectively implement 
        the future force design.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary of the 
Navy shall provide the congressional defense committees a briefing on 
the report required under subsection (a).

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

SEC. 141. REQUIREMENT TO ALIGN AIR FORCE FIGHTER FORCE STRUCTURE WITH 
              NATIONAL DEFENSE STRATEGY AND REPORTS.

    (a) Required Submission of Strategy.--Not later than March 1, 2020, 
the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a fighter force structure acquisition strategy that 
is aligned with the results of the reports submitted under subtitle D 
of title I of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018 (Public Law 115-91) and the Air Force's stated requirements to 
meet the National Defense Strategy.
    (b) Alignment With Strategy.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
not deviate from the strategy submitted under subsection (a) until--
            (1) the Secretary receives a waiver and justification from 
        the Secretary of Defense; and
            (2) 30 days after notifying the congressional defense 
        committees of the proposed deviation.

SEC. 142. REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH THE USE OF AN AGILE DEVOPS SOFTWARE 
              DEVELOPMENT SOLUTION AS AN ALTERNATIVE FOR JOINT STRIKE 
              FIGHTER AUTONOMIC LOGISTICS INFORMATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Establishment of an Alternative Agile DevOps Software 
Development Program.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
software development activity using Agile DevOps to create an 
alternative solution for the Joint Strike Fighter Autonomic Logistics 
Information System (ALIS).
    (b) Competitive Analysis.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
a competitive analysis of the efforts between Autonomic Logistics 
Information System, Autonomic Logistics Information System-Next, and 
Madhatter, including with respect to transition opportunities and 
timelines.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than September 30, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the Air Force, shall 
provide the congressional defense committees a briefing on the findings 
of the Secretary of Defense with respect to the competitive analysis 
carried out under subsection (b).

SEC. 143. REPORT ON FEASIBILITY OF MULTIYEAR CONTRACT FOR PROCUREMENT 
              OF JASSM-ER MISSILES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 31, 2020, the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall submit a report to the congressional defense 
committees assessing the feasibility of entering into a multiyear 
contract for procurement of JASSM-ER missiles starting in fiscal year 
2022.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) An initial assessment of cost savings to the Air Force 
        from a multiyear contract.
            (2) An analysis of at least two different multiyear 
        contract options that vary in either duration or quantity, at 
        least one of which assumes a maximum procurement of 550 
        missiles per year for 5 years.
            (3) An assessment of how a multiyear contract will impact 
        the industrial base.
            (4) An assessment of how a multiyear contract will impact 
        the Long Range Anti-Ship Missile.
            (5) An assessment of how a multiyear contract will impact 
        the ability of the Air Force to develop additional capabilities 
        for the JASSM-ER missile.

SEC. 144. AIR FORCE AGGRESSOR SQUADRON MODERNIZATION.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) it is critical that the Air Force has the capability to 
        train against an advanced air adversary in order to be prepared 
        for conflicts against a modern enemy force, and that in order 
        to have this capability, the Air Force must have access to an 
        advanced adversary force prior to United States adversaries 
        fielding a 5th-generation operational capability; and
            (2) the Air Force's plan to use low-rate initial production 
        F-35As as aggressor aircraft reflects a recognition of the need 
        to field a modernized aggressor fleet.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Air Force may not 
        transfer any low-rate initial production F-35 aircraft for use 
        as aggressor aircraft until the Chief of Staff of the Air Force 
        submits to the congressional defense committees a comprehensive 
        plan and report on the strategy for modernizing its organic 
        aggressor fleet.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following elements:
                    (A) Potential locations for F-35A aggressor 
                aircraft, including an analysis of installations that--
                            (i) have the size and availability of 
                        airspace necessary to meet flying operations 
                        requirements;
                            (ii) have sufficient capacity and 
                        availability of range space;
                            (iii) are capable of hosting advanced-
                        threat training exercises; and
                            (iv) meet or require minimal addition to 
                        the environmental requirements associated with 
                        the basing action.
                    (B) An analysis of the potential cost and benefits 
                of expanding aggressor squadrons currently operating 18 
                Primary Assigned Aircraft (PAA) to a level of 24 PAA 
                each.
                    (C) An analysis of the cost and timelines 
                associated with modernizing the current Air Force 
                aggressor squadrons to include upgrading aircraft 
                radar, infrared search-and-track systems, radar warning 
                receiver, tactical datalink, threat-representative 
                jamming pods, and other upgrades necessary to provide a 
                realistic advanced adversary threat.

SEC. 145. AIR FORCE PLAN FOR COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER FIELDING.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, given 
delays to Operational Loss Replacement (OLR) program fielding and the 
on-time fielding of Combat Rescue Helicopter (CRH), the Air National 
Guard should retain additional HH-60G helicopters at Air National Guard 
locations to meet their recommended primary aircraft authorized (PAA) 
per the Air Force's June 2018 report on Air National Guard HH-60 
requirements.
    (b) Report on Fielding Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 45 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report on its 
        fielding plan for the CRH program.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following elements:
                    (A) A description of the differences in 
                capabilities between the HH-60G, OLR, and CRH 
                helicopters.
                    (B) A description of the costs and risks associated 
                with changing the CRH fielding plan to reduce or 
                eliminate inventory shortfalls.
                    (C) A description of the measures for accelerating 
                the program available within the current contract.
                    (D) A description of the operational risks and 
                benefits associated with fielding the CRH to the active 
                component first, including--
                            (i) how the differing fielding plan may 
                        affect deployment schedules;
                            (ii) what capabilities active-component 
                        units deploying with the CRH will have that 
                        reserve component units deploying with OLR will 
                        not; and
                            (iii) an analysis of the potential costs 
                        and benefits that could result from 
                        accelerating CRH fielding to all units through 
                        additional funding in the future years defense 
                        program.
    (c) Report on Training Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 45 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
        plan to sustain training for initial-entry reserve component 
        HH-60G pilots once the active component of the Air Force has 
        received all of its CRH helicopters.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following elements:
                    (A) Projected reserve component aircrew initial HH-
                60G/OLR qualification training requirements, by year.
                    (B) The number of legacy HH-60G/OLR helicopters 
                required to continue providing initial HH-60G 
                qualification training through the 150th Special 
                Operations Wing at Kirtland Air Force Base.
                    (C) The number of personnel required to continue 
                providing initial HH-60G/OLR qualification training 
                through the 150th Special Operations Wing at Kirtland 
                Air Force Base.
                    (D) The number of flying hours required per pilot 
                to perform ``differences training'' at home station for 
                initial entry HH-60 pilots receiving CRH training at 
                Kirtland Air Force Base to become qualified in the HH-
                60G/OLR at their home station.
                    (E) The projected effect of using local flying 
                training hours at reserve component units on overall 
                unit training readiness and ability to meet Ready 
                Aircrew Program requirements.

SEC. 146. MILITARY TYPE CERTIFICATION FOR AT-6 AND A-29 LIGHT ATTACK 
              EXPERIMENTATION AIRCRAFT.

    The Secretary of the Air Force shall conduct a military type 
certification for the AT-6 and A-29 light attack experimentation 
aircraft pursuant to the DoD Directive on Military Type Certificates, 
5030.61.

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

SEC. 151. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR COMMUNICATIONS 
              SYSTEMS LACKING CERTAIN RESILIENCY FEATURES.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided under subsection (b), none of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020 may be 
used for the procurement of a current or future Department of Defense 
communication program of record unless the communications equipment--
            (1) provides the ability to deny geolocation of a 
        transmission that would allow enemy targeting of the force;
            (2) provides the ability to securely communicate classified 
        information in a jamming environment of like-echelon forces; 
        and
            (3) utilizes a waveform that is made available in the 
        Department of Defense Waveform Information Repository.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of a military department may waive the 
requirement under subsection (a) with respect to a communications 
system upon certifying to the congressional defense committees that the 
system will not require resiliency due to its expected use.

SEC. 152. F-35 SUSTAINMENT COST.

    (a) Quarterly Report.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment shall include in the quarterly report 
required under section 155 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232)--
            (1) sustainment cost data related to the F-35 program, 
        including a comparison in itemized format of the cost of legacy 
        aircraft and the cost of the F-35 program, based on a 
        standardized set of criteria; and
            (2) a progress report on the extent to which the goals 
        developed pursuant to subsection (b) are being achieved.
    (b) Cost Reduction Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment shall develop a plan for achieving 
        significant reductions in the cost to operate and maintain the 
        F-35 aircraft.
            (2) Elements.--The plan required under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following elements:
                    (A) Specific changes in the management of operation 
                and support (O&S) cost to engender continuous process 
                improvement.
                    (B) Specific actions the Department will implement 
                in the near term to reduce O&S cost.
                    (C) Concrete timelines for implementing the 
                specific actions and process changes.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the baseline plan 
        for achieving operation and support cost savings.

SEC. 153. ECONOMIC ORDER QUANTITY CONTRACTING AUTHORITY FOR F-35 JOINT 
              STRIKE FIGHTER PROGRAM.

    The Secretary of Defense is authorized to award multiyear contracts 
for the procurement of F-35 aircraft in economic order quantities for 
fiscal year 2021 (Lot 15) through fiscal year 2023 (Lot 17).

SEC. 154. REPEAL OF TACTICAL UNMANNED VEHICLE COMMON DATA LINK 
              REQUIREMENT.

    Section 141 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3163) is hereby repealed.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4201.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 211. DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITION STRATEGY TO PROCURE SECURE, LOW 
              PROBABILITY OF DETECTION DATA LINK NETWORK CAPABILITY.

    (a) Strategy Required.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Chief of 
Staff of the Air Force and Chief of Naval Operations shall jointly 
submit to the congressional defense committees a joint development and 
acquisition strategy to procure a secure, low probability of detection 
data link network capability, with the ability to effectively operate 
in hostile jamming environments while preserving the low observability 
characteristics of the relevant platforms, including both existing and 
planned platforms.
    (b) Network Characteristics.--The data link network capability to 
be procured pursuant to the development and acquisition strategy 
submitted under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) ensure that any network made with such capability will 
        be low risk and affordable, with minimal impact or change to 
        existing host platforms and minimal overall integration costs;
            (2) use a non-proprietary and open systems approach 
        compatible with the Rapid Capabilities Office Open Mission 
        Systems initiative of the Air Force and the Future Airborne 
        Capability Environment initiative of the Navy; and
            (3) provide for an architecture to connect, with 
        operationally relevant throughput and latency--
                    (A) fifth-generation combat aircraft;
                    (B) fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat 
                aircraft;
                    (C) fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat 
                aircraft and appropriate support aircraft and other 
                network nodes for command, control, communications, 
                intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
                purposes; and
                    (D) fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat 
                aircraft and their associated network-enabled precision 
                weapons.
    (c) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for operation and 
maintenance for the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force and for 
operations and maintenance for the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, 
not more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended until the date 
that is 15 days after the date on which the Chief of Staff of the Air 
Force and Chief of Naval Operations submit the development and 
acquisition strategy required by subsection (a).

SEC. 212. ESTABLISHMENT OF SECURE NEXT-GENERATION WIRELESS NETWORK (5G) 
              INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE NEVADA TEST AND TRAINING RANGE AND 
              BASE INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Establishment Required.--Not later than one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish 
secure fifth-generation wireless network components and capabilities at 
no fewer than two Department of Defense installations in accordance 
with this section.
    (b) First Installation.--
            (1) Location.--The Secretary shall establish components and 
        capabilities under subsection (a) at the Nevada Test and 
        Training Range, which shall serve as the Department's Major 
        Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB) for fifth-generation 
        wireless networking.
            (2) Objective.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
        establishment of components and capabilities under subsection 
        (a) at the range described in paragraph (1) of this subsection 
        will allow the Department to explore and demonstrate the 
        utility of using fifth-generation wireless networking 
        technology to enhance combat operations.
            (3) Purpose.--The purpose of the establishment of 
        components and capabilities under subsection (a) at the range 
        described in paragraph (1) of this subsection is to demonstrate 
        the following:
                    (A) The potential military utility of high 
                bandwidth, scalable, and low latency fifth-generation 
                wireless networking technology.
                    (B) Advanced security technology that is applicable 
                to fifth-generation networks as well as legacy 
                Department command and control networks.
                    (C) Secure interoperability with fixed and wireless 
                systems (legacy and future systems).
                    (D) Enhancements such as spectrum and waveform 
                diversity, frequency hopping and spreading, and beam 
                forming for military requirements.
                    (E) Technology for dynamic network slicing for 
                specific use cases and applications requiring varying 
                levels of latency, scale, and throughput.
                    (F) Technology for dynamic spectrum sharing and 
                network isolation.
    (c) Second and Additional Installations.--
            (1) Location.--The location of the second and any 
        additional installations for establishment of components and 
        capabilities under subsection (a) shall be at such Department 
        installation or installations as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate for the purpose set forth in paragraph (2) of this 
        subsection.
            (2) Purposes.--The purpose of the second and any additional 
        installations for establishment of components and capabilities 
        under subsection (a) is to explore and demonstrate 
        infrastructure implementations of the following:
                    (A) Base infrastructure installation of high 
                bandwidth, scalable, and low latency fifth-generation 
                wireless networking technology.
                    (B) Applications for secure fifth-generation 
                wireless network capabilities for the Department, such 
                as the following:
                            (i) Interactive augmented reality or 
                        synthetic training environments.
                            (ii) Internet of things devices.
                            (iii) Autonomous systems.
                            (iv) Advanced manufacturing through the 
                        following:
                                    (I) Department-sponsored centers 
                                for manufacturing innovation (as 
                                defined in section 34(c) of the 
                                National Institute of Standards and 
                                Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278s(c))).
                                    (II) Department research and 
                                development organizations.
                                    (III) Manufacturers in the defense 
                                industrial base of the United States.

SEC. 213. LIMITATION AND REPORT ON INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION CAPABILITY 
              INCREMENT 2 ENDURING CAPABILITY.

    (a) Limitation and Report.--None of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
2020 for the Army may be obligated or expended for research, 
development, test, and evaluation for the Indirect Fire Protection 
Capability Increment 2 enduring capability until the Secretary of the 
Army submits to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
Indirect Fire Protection Capability Increment 2 program that contains 
the following:
            (1) An assessment of whether the requirements previously 
        established for the program meet the anticipated threat at the 
        time of planned initial operating capability and fully 
        operating capability.
            (2) A list of candidate systems considered to meet the 
        Indirect Fire Protection Capability Increment 2 requirement, 
        including those fielded or in development by the Army, the 
        Missile Defense Agency, and other elements of the Department of 
        Defense.
            (3) An assessment of each candidate system's capability 
        against representative threats.
            (4) An assessment of other relevant specifications of each 
        candidate system, including cost of development, cost per round 
        if applicable, technological maturity, and logistics and 
        sustainment.
            (5) A plan for how the Army will integrate the chosen 
        system or systems into the Integrated Air and Missile Defense 
        Battle Command System.
    (b) Certification Required.--Not later than 10 days after the date 
on which the President submits the annual budget request of the 
President for fiscal year 2021 pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, the Secretary of the Army shall, without 
delegation, submit to the congressional defense committees a 
certification that identifies a program of record contained within that 
budget request that will meet the requirement in Department of Defense 
Directive 5100.01 to conduct air and missile defense to support joint 
campaigns as it applies to defense against supersonic cruise missiles.

SEC. 214. ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM SHARING RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Program Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Administrator of the National Telecommunications 
and Information Administration, and the Federal Communications 
Commission shall jointly establish an electromagnetic spectrum sharing 
research and development program to promote the establishment of 
innovative technologies and techniques to facilitate electromagnetic 
spectrum sharing between fifth-generation wireless networking 
technologies, Federal systems, and other non-Federal incumbent systems.
    (b) Establishment of Test Beds.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination with 
        the Administrator and the Commission, shall, as part of the 
        program established under subsection (a), establish at least 
        two test beds to demonstrate the potential for cohabitation 
        between fifth-generation wireless networking technologies, 
        other incumbent non-Federal systems, and Federal systems.
            (2) Co-location of test beds.--The test beds established 
        under paragraph (1) may be co-located, if a single geographic 
        location can provide a sufficient diversity of Federal systems. 
        If not, test beds established under this subsection shall 
        coordinate to share results and best practices identified in 
        each location.
    (c) Development of Department of Defense Integrated Spectrum 
Automation Enterprise Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Secretary 
        and the Administrator of the National Telecommunications and 
        Information Administration, in consultation with the Federal 
        Communications Commission, shall jointly propose an integrated 
        spectrum automation enterprise strategy for the Department of 
        Defense to address management of electromagnetic spectrum, 
        including both Federal and non-Federal spectrum that is shared 
        by the Department of Defense or could be used for national 
        security missions in the future, including on a shared basis.
            (2) Matters encompassed.--The strategy developed under 
        subparagraph (A) shall encompass cloud-based databases, 
        artificial intelligence, system certification processes, public 
        facing application programming interfaces and online tools, and 
        electromagnetic spectrum compatibility analyses for sharing of 
        electromagnetic spectrum.
    (d) Periodic Briefings.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once every 180 
days thereafter until the Secretary submits the report required by 
subsection (e), the Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator 
and the Commission, shall brief the appropriate committees of Congress 
on the progress of the test beds established under subsection (b).
    (e) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than October 1, 2022, the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator and the 
        Commission, shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress a report on the results of the test beds established 
        under subsection (b).
            (2) Recommendations.--The report submitted under paragraph 
        (1) shall include recommendations to facilitate sharing 
        frameworks in the bands of electromagnetic spectrum that are 
        the subject of the test beds.
    (f) Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this subsection, the 
term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 215. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON THE ADVANCED BATTLE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Senate supports the vision of the Air Force for the 
        Advanced Battle Management System (ABMS) as a system of systems 
        that can integrate air, space, and other systems to detect, 
        track, target, and direct effects against threats in all 
        domains;
            (2) such a capability will be essential to the ability of 
        the Air Force to operate effectively as part, and in support, 
        of the Joint Force, especially in the highly-contested 
        operating environments established by near-peer competitors;
            (3) the Senate is concerned that the Air Force has not 
        moved quickly enough over the past year to begin defining the 
        requirements and maturing the technologies that will be 
        essential for the Advanced Battle Management System, especially 
        in light of the pending retirement of the Joint Surveillance 
        and Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) aircraft that the 
        Advanced Battle Management System is conceived, in part, to 
        replace;
            (4) the Senate understands that the Air Force is moving 
        deliberately to analyze alternative concepts for the Advanced 
        Battle Management System and adopt an architectural approach to 
        its design;
            (5) the Advanced Battle Management System, as a multidomain 
        system of systems, must have a central command and control 
        capability that can integrate these systems into a unified 
        warfighting capability;
            (6) emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence 
        and automated sensor fusion, should be built into the command 
        and control capability for the Advanced Battle Management 
        System from the start;
            (7) such technologies would improve the ability of the 
        Advanced Battle Management System to support human operators 
        with--
                    (A) the rapid processing and fusion of multidomain 
                sensor data;
                    (B) the highly-automated identification, 
                classification, tracking, and targeting of threats in 
                all domains;
                    (C) the creation of a real-time common operating 
                picture from multidomain intelligence; and the ability 
                to direct effects on the battlefield at machine-to-
                machine speeds from all of the systems comprising the 
                Advanced Battle Management System; and
            (8) for an effort as ambitious and complex as the Advanced 
        Battle Management System, the Senate encourages the Air Force 
        to use existing acquisition authorities to begin a rapid 
        prototyping effort to refine the requirements and software-
        intensive technologies that will be integral to the command and 
        control capability of the Advanced Battle Management System.

SEC. 216. MODIFICATION OF PROOF OF CONCEPT COMMERCIALIZATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Making the Program Permanent.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1603 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 
        U.S.C. 2359 note) is amended by striking subsection (g).
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Such section is further 
        amended--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``pilot'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``Pilot''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Pilot''; and
                    (C) by striking ``pilot'' each place it appears.
    (b) Additional Improvements.--Such section, as amended by 
subsection (a), is further amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``of dual-use 
        technology'' after ``commercialization'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by inserting ``of Dual-Use Technology'' before 
                ``Program''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``with a focus on priority defense 
                technology areas that attract public and private sector 
                funding, as well as private sector investment capital, 
                including from venture capital firms in the United 
                States,'' before ``in accordance'';
            (3) in subsection (c)(4)(A)(iv), by inserting ``, which may 
        include access to venture capital'' after ``award'';
            (4) by striking subsection (d);
            (5) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d);
            (6) by striking subsection (f); and
            (7) by adding at the end the following new subsection (e):
    ``(e) Authorities.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary may 
use the following authorities:
            ``(1) Section 1599g of title 10 of the United States Code, 
        relating to public-private talent exchanges.
            ``(2) Section 2368 of such title, relating to Centers for 
        Science, Technology, and Engineering Partnerships.
            ``(3) Section 2374a of such title, relating to prizes for 
        advanced technology achievements.
            ``(4) Section 2474 of such title, relating to Centers of 
        Industrial and Technical Excellence.
            ``(5) Section 2521 of such title, relating to the 
        Manufacturing Technology Program.
            ``(6) Section 225 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2359 note).
            ``(7) Section 1711 of such Act (Public Law 115-91; 10 
        U.S.C. 2505 note), relating to a pilot program on strengthening 
        manufacturing in the defense industrial base.
            ``(8) Section 12 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology 
        Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a) and section 6305 of 
        title 31, United States Code, relating to cooperative research 
        and development agreements.''.

SEC. 217. MODIFICATION OF DEFENSE QUANTUM INFORMATION SCIENCE AND 
              TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    Section 234 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by inserting ``and international'' 
                        after ``interagency''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``private sector'' 
                        inserting ``private-sector and international''; 
                        and
                    (B) in paragraph (6), by inserting ``, workforce,'' 
                after ``including facilities'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``sciences;'' and 
                inserting the following: ``sciences, including through 
                coordination with--
                    ``(A) the National Quantum Coordination Office;
                    ``(B) the National Science and Technology Council 
                Quantum Information Science Subcommittee;
                    ``(C) other Federal agencies;
                    ``(D) other elements and offices of the Department 
                of Defense; and
                    ``(E) appropriate private-sector organizations;'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (C) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph 
                (5); and
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following 
                new paragraph (4):
            ``(4) develop, in coordination with appropriate Federal 
        entities, a taxonomy for quantum science activities and 
        requirements for relevant technology and standards; and''; and
            (3) in subsection (d)(2)(D), by inserting ``a roadmap and'' 
        after ``including''.

SEC. 218. TECHNOLOGY AND NATIONAL SECURITY FELLOWSHIP.

    (a) Fellowship Program.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting 
        through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering, shall establish a civilian fellowship program 
        designed to place eligible individuals within the Department of 
        Defense and Congress to increase the number of national 
        security professionals with science, technology, engineering, 
        and mathematics credentials employed by the Department and 
        Congress.
            (2) Designation.--The fellowship program established under 
        paragraph (1) shall be known as the ``Technology and National 
        Security Fellowship'' (in this section referred to as the 
        ``fellows program'').
            (3) Assignments.--Each individual selected for 
        participation in the fellows program shall be assigned to a one 
        year position within--
                    (A) the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) a congressional office with emphasis on Armed 
                Forces and national security matters.
            (4) Pay and benefits.--Each individual assigned to a 
        position under paragraph (3)--
                    (A) shall be compensated at a rate of basic pay 
                that is equivalent to the rate of basic pay payable for 
                a position at level 10 of the General Schedule; and
                    (B) shall be treated as an employee of the United 
                States during the assignment.
    (b) Eligible Individuals.--For purposes of this section, and 
subject to subsection (e), an eligible individual is any individual 
who--
            (1) is a citizen of the United States; and
            (2) either--
                    (A) expects to be awarded an undergraduate or 
                graduate degree that, as determined by the Secretary, 
                focuses on science, technology, engineering, or 
                mathematics course work not later than 180 days after 
                the date on which the individual submits an application 
                for participation in the fellows program; or
                    (B) possesses an undergraduate or graduate degree 
                that, as determined by the Secretary, focuses on 
                science, technology, engineering, or mathematics course 
                work that was awarded not earlier than one year before 
                the date on which the individual submits an application 
                for participation in the fellows program.
    (c) Application.--Each individual seeking to participate in the 
fellows program shall submit to the Secretary an application therefor 
at such time and in such manner as the Secretary shall specify.
    (d) Coordination.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary may 
consider working through the following entities:
            (1) The National Security Innovation Network.
            (2) Other Department of Defense or public and private 
        sector organizations, as determined appropriate by the 
        Secretary.
    (e) Modifications to Fellows Program.--The Secretary may modify the 
terms and procedures of the fellows program in order to better achieve 
the goals of the program and to support workforce needs of the 
Department of Defense.
    (f) Consultation.--The Secretary may consult with the heads of the 
agencies, components, and other elements of the Department of Defense, 
Members and committees of Congress, and such institutions of higher 
education and private entities engaged in work on national security and 
emerging technologies as the Secretary considers appropriate for 
purposes of the fellows program, including with respect to assignments 
in the fellows program.

SEC. 219. DIRECT AIR CAPTURE AND BLUE CARBON REMOVAL TECHNOLOGY 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
        with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of 
        Energy, and the heads of such other Federal agencies as the 
        Secretary of Defense considers appropriate, shall carry out a 
        program on research, development, testing, evaluation, study, 
        and demonstration of technologies related to blue carbon 
        capture and direct air capture.
            (2) Program goals.--The goals of the program established 
        under paragraph (1) are as follows:
                    (A) To develop technologies that capture carbon 
                dioxide from seawater and the air to turn such carbon 
                dioxide into clean fuels to enhance fuel and energy 
                security.
                    (B) To develop and demonstrate technologies that 
                capture carbon dioxide from seawater and the air to 
                reuse such carbon dioxide to create products for 
                military uses.
                    (C) To develop direct air capture technologies for 
                use--
                            (i) at military installations or facilities 
                        of the Department of Defense; or
                            (ii) in modes of transportation by the Navy 
                        or the Coast Guard.
            (3) Phases.--The program established under paragraph (1) 
        shall be carried out in two phases as follows:
                    (A) The first phase shall consist of research and 
                development and shall be carried out as described in 
                subsection (b).
                    (B) The second phase shall consist of testing and 
                evaluation and shall be carried out as described in 
                subsection (c), if the Secretary determines that the 
                results of the research and development phase justify 
                implementing the testing and evaluation phase.
            (4) Designation.--The program established under paragraph 
        (1) shall be known as the ``Direct Air Capture and Blue Carbon 
        Removal Technology Program'' (in this section referred to as 
        the ``Program'').
    (b) Research and Development Phase.--
            (1) In general.--During the research and development phase 
        of the Program, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct research 
        and development in pursuit of the goals set forth in subsection 
        (a)(2).
            (2) Direct air capture.--The research and development phase 
        of the Program may include, with respect to direct air capture, 
        a front end engineering and design study that includes an 
        evaluation of direct air capture designs to produce fuel for 
        use--
                    (A) at military installations or facilities of the 
                Department of Defense; or
                    (B) in modes of transportation by the Navy or the 
                Coast Guard.
            (3) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the research 
        and development phase of the Program during a four-year period 
        commencing not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (4) Grants authorized.--The Secretary may carry out the 
        research and development phase of the Program through the award 
        of grants to private persons and eligible laboratories.
            (5) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the completion of the research and development phase of 
        the Program, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on 
        the research and development carried out under the Program.
            (6) Funding for fiscal year 2020.--(A) The amount 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 by section 
        201 for research, development, test, and evaluation is hereby 
        increased by $8,000,000, with the amount of the increase to be 
        available for the research and development phase of the 
        Program.
            (B) The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
        year 2020 by section 301 for operation and maintenance is 
        hereby decreased by $8,000,000, with the amount of the decrease 
        to be taken from amounts available for printing.
            (7) Authorization of appropriations for future fiscal 
        years.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the 
        research and development phase of the Program $10,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2021 through 2023.
    (c) Testing and Evaluation Phase.--
            (1) In general.--During the testing and evaluation phase of 
        the Program, the Secretary shall, in pursuit of the goals set 
        forth in subsection (a)(2), conduct tests and evaluations of 
        the technologies researched and developed during the research 
        and development phase of the Program.
            (2) Direct air capture.--The testing and evaluation phase 
        of the Program may include demonstration projects for direct 
        air capture to produce fuels for use--
                    (A) at military installations or facilities of the 
                Department of Defense; or
                    (B) in modes of transportation by the Navy or the 
                Coast Guard.
            (3) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the testing 
        and evaluation phase of the Program during the three-year 
        period commencing on the date of the completion of the research 
        and development phase described in subsection (b), except that 
        the testing and evaluation phase of the Program with respect to 
        direct air capture may commence at such time after a front end 
        engineering and design study demonstrates to the Secretary that 
        commencement of such phase is appropriate.
            (4) Grants authorized.--The Secretary may carry out the 
        testing and evaluation phase of the Program through the award 
        of grants to private persons and eligible laboratories.
            (5) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the testing 
        and evaluation phase of the Program at military installations 
        or facilities of the Department of Defense.
            (6) Report required.--Not later than September 30, 2026, 
        the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the findings 
        of the Secretary with respect to the effectiveness of the 
        technologies tested and evaluated under the Program.
            (7) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out the testing and evaluation 
        phase of the Program $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 
        through 2026.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``blue carbon capture'' means the removal of 
        dissolved carbon dioxide from seawater through engineered or 
        inorganic processes, including filters, membranes, or phase 
        change systems.
            (2)(A) The term ``direct air capture'', with respect to a 
        facility, technology, or system, means that the facility, 
        technology, or system uses carbon capture equipment to capture 
        carbon dioxide directly from the air.
            (B) The term ``direct air capture'' does not include any 
        facility, technology, or system that captures carbon dioxide--
                    (i) that is deliberately released from a naturally 
                occurring subsurface spring; or
                    (ii) using natural photosynthesis.
            (3) The term ``eligible laboratory'' means--
                    (A) a National Laboratory (as defined in section 2 
                of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801)); or
                    (B) a laboratory of the Department of Defense.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

SEC. 231. NATIONAL SECURITY EMERGING BIOTECHNOLOGIES RESEARCH AND 
              DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a 
research and development program on applications of emerging 
biotechnologies for the national security purposes set forth in 
subsection (b).
    (b) National Security Purposes.--The national security purposes set 
forth in this subsection are as follows:
            (1) To ensure military understanding and relevancy of 
        applications of emerging biotechnologies in meeting national 
        security requirements.
            (2) To coordinate all research and development relating to 
        emerging biotechnologies within the Department of Defense and 
        to provide for interagency cooperation and collaboration on 
        research and development relating to emerging biotechnologies 
        between the Department and other departments and agencies of 
        the United States and appropriate private sector entities that 
        are involved in research and development relating to emerging 
        biotechnologies.
            (3) To develop and manage a portfolio of fundamental and 
        applied emerging biotechnologies research initiatives that is 
        stable, consistent, and balanced across scientific disciplines.
            (4) To collect, synthesize, and disseminate critical 
        information on research and development relating to emerging 
        biotechnologies within the national security establishment.
            (5) To establish and support appropriate research, 
        innovation, and the industrial base, including facilities and 
        infrastructure, to support the needs of Department missions and 
        scientific workforce relating to emerging biotechnologies.
            (6) To develop a technical basis to inform the intelligence 
        community on the analysis needs of the Department with respect 
        to emerging biotechnologies.
    (c) Administration.--In carrying out the program required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall act through the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Research and Engineering, who shall supervise the planning, 
management, and coordination of the program. The Under Secretary, in 
consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments and the 
heads of participating Defense Agencies and other departments and 
agencies of the United States, shall--
            (1) prescribe a set of long-term challenges and a set of 
        broad technical goals for the program;
            (2) develop a coordinated and integrated research and 
        investment plan for meeting near-, mid-, and long-term 
        challenges for achieving broad technical goals that build upon 
        the Department's investment in emerging biotechnologies 
        research and development, commercial sector and global 
        investments, and other United States Government investments in 
        emerging biotechnologies fields;
            (3) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, develop and continuously update guidance, 
        including classification guidance for defense-related emerging 
        biotechnologies activities, and policies for restricting access 
        to research to minimize the effects of loss of intellectual 
        property in basic and applied emerging biotechnologies and 
        information considered sensitive to the leadership of the 
        United States in the field of emerging biotechnologies; and
            (4) develop memoranda of agreement, joint funding 
        agreements, and other cooperative arrangements necessary for 
        meeting long-term challenges and achieving specific technical 
        goals.
    (d) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2020, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
        a report on the program carried out under subsection (a).
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the potential national 
                security risks of emerging biotechnologies 
                technologies.
                    (B) An assessment of the efforts of foreign powers 
                to use emerging biotechnologies for military 
                applications and other purposes.
                    (C) A description of the knowledge-base of the 
                Department with respect to emerging biotechnologies, 
                plans to defend against potential national security 
                threats posed by emerging biotechnologies, and any 
                plans of the Secretary to enhance such knowledge-base.
                    (D) A plan that describes how the Secretary intends 
                to use emerging biotechnologies for military 
                applications and to meet other needs of the Department.
                    (E) A description of activities undertaken 
                consistent with this section, including funding for 
                activities consistent with the section.
                    (F) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (3) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (e) Definition of Emerging Biotechnologies.--In this section, the 
term ``emerging biotechnologies'' includes the following:
            (1) Engineered biology, which is the application of 
        engineering design principles and practices to biological, 
        genetic, molecular, and cellular systems to enable novel 
        functions and capabilities.
            (2) Neurotechnology, which refers to central and peripheral 
        nervous system interfaces that leverage structural, 
        computational, and mathematical modeling to develop devices 
        that decode neural activity (identify how it corresponds to a 
        particular behavior or cognitive state, such as sensorimotor 
        function, memory, or neuropsychiatric function) and use this 
        information to deliver targeted interventions or therapies to 
        facilitate performance.
            (3) Performance enhancement, namely technologies that 
        augment human physiology at the cellular, molecular, and 
        physiological levels giving the end user novel or enhanced 
        physical and psychological capabilities.
            (4) Gene editing, including tools that facilitate 
        deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequence deletion, replacement, or 
        insertion into cellular or organismal genetic material, thereby 
        modulating genetic function for applications that include 
        treating and preventing disease, and improving function of 
        biological systems.
            (5) Biomolecular sequencing and synthesis, namely the 
        processes by which biomolecular components (such as 
        deoxyribonucleic acid and ribonucleic acid) can be measured 
        (sequencing) or generated (synthesis) for uses in engineering 
        biology, biomanufacturing, and other medical and nonmedical 
        applications.

SEC. 232. CYBER SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ACTIVITIES ROADMAP AND REPORTS.

    (a) Roadmap for Science and Technology Activities to Support 
Development of Cyber Capabilities.--
            (1) Roadmap required.--The Secretary of Defense, acting 
        through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering, shall develop a roadmap for science and technology 
        activities of the Department of Defense to support development 
        of cyber capabilities to meet Department needs and missions.
            (2) Goal of consistency.--The Secretary shall develop the 
        roadmap required by paragraph (1) to ensure consistency with 
        appropriate Federal interagency, industry, and academic 
        activities.
            (3) Scope.--The roadmap required by paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) cover the development of capabilities that will 
                likely see operational use within the next 25 years or 
                earlier; and
                    (B) address cyber operations and cybersecurity.
            (4) Consultation.--The Secretary shall develop the roadmap 
        required by paragraph (1) in consultation with the following:
                    (A) The Chief Information Officer of the 
                Department.
                    (B) The secretaries and chiefs of the military 
                departments.
                    (C) The Director of Operational Test and 
                Evaluation.
                    (D) The Commander of the United States Cyber 
                Command.
                    (E) The Director of the National Security Agency.
                    (F) The Director of the Defense Information Systems 
                Agency.
                    (G) The Director of the Defense Advanced Research 
                Projects Agency.
                    (H) The Director of the Defense Digital Service.
            (5) Form.--The Secretary shall develop the roadmap required 
        by paragraph (1) in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex.
            (6) Publication.--The Secretary shall make available to the 
        public the unclassified form of the roadmap developed pursuant 
        to paragraph (1).
    (b) Annual Report on Cyber Science and Technology Activities.--
            (1) Annual reports required.--In fiscal years 2021, 2022, 
        and 2023, the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering submit to the Congressional Defense Committees a 
        report on the science and technology activities within the 
        Department of Defense relating to cyber matters during the 
        previous fiscal year, the current fiscal year, and the 
        following fiscal year.
            (2) Contents.--Each report submitted pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) shall include, for the period covered by the report, a 
        description and listing of the science and technology 
        activities of the Department relating to cyber matters, 
        including the following:
                    (A) Extramural science and technology activities.
                    (B) Intramural science and technology activities.
                    (C) Major and minor military construction 
                activities.
                    (D) Major prototyping and demonstration programs.
                    (E) A list of agreements and activities transition 
                capabilities to acquisition activities, including--
                            (i) national security systems;
                            (ii) business systems; and
                            (iii) enterprise and network systems.
                    (F) Efforts to enhance the national technical 
                cybersecurity workforce, including specific programs to 
                support education, training, internships, and hiring.
                    (G) Efforts to perform cooperative activities with 
                international partners.
                    (H) Efforts under the Small Business Innovation 
                Research and the Small Business Technology Transfer 
                Program, including estimated amounts in the request for 
                the following fiscal year.
                    (I) Efforts to encourage partnerships between the 
                Department of Defense and universities participating in 
                the National Centers of Academic Excellence in Cyber 
                Operations and Cyber Defense.
            (3) Timing.--Each report submitted pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) shall be submitted concurrently with the annual budget 
        request of the President submitted pursuant to section 1105 of 
        title 31, United States Code.
            (4) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 233. REQUIRING CERTAIN MICROELECTRONICS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MEET 
              TRUSTED SUPPLY CHAIN AND OPERATIONAL SECURITY STANDARDS.

    (a) Purchases.--
            (1) In general.--To protect the United States from 
        intellectual property theft and to ensure national security and 
        public safety in the application of new generations of wireless 
        network technology and microelectronics, beginning on January 
        1, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall--
                    (A) ensure that each critical microelectronics 
                product and service that the Department of Defense 
                purchases on or after such date meets the trusted 
                supply chain and operational security standards 
                established pursuant to subsection (b), except in a 
                case in which the Department seeks to purchase a 
                critical microelectronics product or service, but--
                            (i) no such product or service is available 
                        for purchase that meets such standards; or
                            (ii) no such product or service is 
                        available for purchase that--
                                    (I) meets such standards; and
                                    (II) is available at a price that 
                                the Secretary does not consider 
                                prohibitively expensive; and
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, ensure that 
                each microelectronics product and service, other than a 
                critical microelectronics product and service, that is 
                purchased by the Department of Defense on or after such 
                date meets the trusted supply chain and operational 
                security standards established pursuant to subsection 
                (b).
            (2) Critical microelectronics products and services.--For 
        purposes of this section, a critical microelectronics product 
        or service is a microelectronics product, or a service based on 
        such a product, that is designated by the Secretary as critical 
        to meeting national security needs.
    (b) Trusted Supply Chain and Operational Security Standards.--
            (1) Standards required.--Not later than January 1, 2021, 
        the Secretary shall establish trusted supply chain and 
        operational security standards for the purchase of 
        microelectronics products and services by the Department.
            (2) Consultation required.--In developing standards under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with the following:
                    (A) The Secretary of Homeland Security, the 
                Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, and the 
                Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
                Technology.
                    (B) Suppliers of microelectronics products and 
                services from the United States and allies and partners 
                of the United States.
                    (C) Representatives of major United States industry 
                sectors that rely on a trusted supply chain and the 
                operational security of microelectronics products and 
                services.
                    (D) Representatives of the United States insurance 
                industry.
            (3) Tiers of trust and security authorized.--In carrying 
        out paragraph (1), the Secretary may establish tiers of trust 
        and security within the supply chain and operational security 
        standards for microelectronics products and services.
            (4) General applicability.--The standards established 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be, to the greatest extent 
        practicable, generally applicable to the trusted supply chain 
        and operational security needs and use cases of the United 
        States Government and commercial industry, such that the 
        standards could be widely adopted by government and commercial 
        industry.
            (5) Annual review.--Not later than October 1 of each year, 
        the Secretary shall review the standards established pursuant 
        to paragraph (1) and issue updates or modifications as the 
        Secretary considers necessary or appropriate.
    (c) Ensuring Ability to Sell Commercially.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall, to the greatest 
        extent practicable, ensure that suppliers of microelectronics 
        products for the Federal Government who meet the standards 
        established under subsection (b) are able and incentivized to 
        sell products commercially that are produced on the same 
        production lines as the microelectronics products supplied to 
        the Federal Government.
            (2) Effect of requirements and acquisitions.--The Secretary 
        shall, to the greatest extent practicable, ensure that the 
        requirements of the Department and the acquisition by the 
        Department of microelectronics enable the success of a dual-use 
        microelectronics industry.
    (d) Maintaining Competition and Innovation.--The Secretary shall 
take such actions as the Secretary considers necessary and appropriate, 
within the Secretary's authorized activities to maintain the health of 
the defense industrial base, to ensure that--
            (1) providers of microelectronics products and services 
        that meet the standards established under subsection (b) are 
        exposed to competitive market pressures to achieve competitive 
        pricing and sustained innovation; and
            (2) the industrial base of microelectronics products and 
        services that meet the standards established under subsection 
        (b) includes providers producing in or belonging to countries 
        that are allies or partners of the United States.

SEC. 234. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO GLOBAL RESEARCH WATCH PROGRAM.

    Section 2365 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsections (a) and (d)(2), by striking ``Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering'' both places 
        it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering'';
            (2) in subsections (d)(3) and (e), by striking ``Assistant 
        Secretary'' both places it appears and inserting ``Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering''; and
            (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``Assistant Secretary'' 
        both places it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary''.

SEC. 235. ADDITIONAL TECHNOLOGY AREAS FOR EXPEDITED ACCESS TO TECHNICAL 
              TALENT.

    Section 217(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (27) as paragraph (29); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (26) the following new 
        paragraph (27):
            ``(27) Rapid prototyping.
            ``(28) Infrastructure resilience.''.

SEC. 236. SENSE OF THE SENATE AND PERIODIC BRIEFINGS ON THE SECURITY 
              AND AVAILABILITY OF FIFTH-GENERATION (5G) WIRELESS 
              NETWORK TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION.

    (a) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) use of fifth-generation (5G) wireless networks and 
        associated technology will be a foundation for future 
        warfighting applications for the Department of Defense;
            (2) the commercial implementation of fifth-generation 
        wireless networks will provide the high speed and capacity 
        necessary for the Internet of Things, advanced manufacturing, 
        autonomous machines, the application of artificial 
        intelligence, and smart cities, and it is critical that the 
        Department of Defense utilize these new capabilities;
            (3) protecting the innovation and technology that enables 
        these revolutionary developments is essential for security of 
        the Department of Defense mission, and will require improved 
        security of the microelectronics supply chain and of the design 
        and operation of networks based on fifth-generation wireless 
        network technology;
            (4) securing fifth-generation wireless networks and 
        associated technology is required due to the increased effects 
        of military processes that will be enabled on fifth-generation 
        wireless networks;
            (5) the Department of Defense can no longer rely on 
        fabricationless business models in which microelectronics 
        manufacturing is located in countries with vulnerable supply 
        chains or adversarial nations known for predatory industrial 
        espionage and posing a military threat to the United States or 
        on small-scale manufacturing of trusted microelectronics in 
        dedicated facilities;
            (6) the Department of Defense should leverage its large 
        procurement budget, sophisticated understanding of the threats 
        to microelectronics supply chains, as well as experience 
        establishing requirements for the secure production of 
        microelectronics and working with trusted foundries to create a 
        secure, competitive, and innovative manufacturing base in 
        cooperation with industry; and
            (7) the Secretary of Defense should act expeditiously to 
        achieve the goals enumerated in this subsection using resources 
        and authorities available to the Department, while encouraging 
        interagency planning for a whole-of-government strategy.
    (b) Periodic Briefings.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 15, 2020, and not 
        less frequently than once every three months thereafter until 
        March 15, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall brief the 
        congressional defense committees on how the Department of 
        Defense--
                    (A) is using secure fifth-generation wireless 
                network technology;
                    (B) is reshaping the Department's policy for 
                producing and procuring secure microelectronics; and
                    (C) working in the interagency and internationally 
                to develop common policies and approaches.
            (2) Elements.--Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall 
        contain information on--
                    (A) efforts to ensure a secure supply chain for 
                fifth-generation wireless network equipment and 
                microelectronics;
                    (B) the continued availability of electromagnetic 
                spectrum for warfighting needs;
                    (C) planned implementation of fifth-generation 
                wireless network infrastructure in warfighting 
                networks, base infrastructure, defense-related 
                manufacturing, and logistics;
                    (D) steps taken to work with allied and partner 
                countries to protect critical networks and supply 
                chains; and
                    (E) such other topics as the Secretary considers 
                relevant.

SEC. 237. TRANSFER OF COMBATING TERRORISM TECHNICAL SUPPORT OFFICE.

    (a) Transfer Required.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary 
of Defense shall transfer responsibilities for the authority, 
direction, and control of the Combating Terrorism Technical Support 
Office from the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations 
and Low Intensity Conflict to the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Research and Engineering.
    (b) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than the date that is 30 days 
        before the date of the transfer of responsibilities required by 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report on such transfer.
            (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the relevance of the roles, 
                responsibilities, and objectives of the Combating 
                Terrorism Technical Support Office to supporting 
                implementation of the National Defense Strategy and 
                recommendations, if any, for changes to the roles, 
                responsibilities, and objectives of the Combating 
                Terrorism Technical Support Office for the purpose of 
                supporting implementation of the National Defense 
                Strategy.
                    (B) An articulation of any anticipated efficiencies 
                resulting from the transfer of responsibilities as 
                described in subsection (a).
                    (C) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                relevant.

SEC. 238. BRIEFING ON COOPERATIVE DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS AND RISKS 
              OF TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER TO CHINA OR RUSSIA.

    (a) Briefing Required.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary 
of Defense, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, 
shall provide the congressional defense committees a briefing, and 
documents as appropriate, on current cooperative defense technology 
programs of the Department of Defense with any country the Secretary 
assesses to be engaged in significant defense or other advanced 
technology cooperation with the People's Republic of China or the 
Russian Federation.
    (b) Matters to Be Addressed.--The briefing required by subsection 
(a) shall address the following matters:
            (1) Whether any current cooperative defense technology 
        programs of the Department of Defense increase the risk of 
        technology transfer to the People's Republic of China or the 
        Russian Federation.
            (2) What actions the Department of Defense has taken to 
        mitigate the risk of technology transfer to the People's 
        Republic of China or the Russian Federation with respect to 
        current cooperative defense technology programs.
            (3) Such recommendations as the Secretary may have for 
        legislative or administrative action to prevent technology 
        transfer to the People's Republic of China or the Russian 
        Federation with respect to cooperative defense technology 
        programs, especially as it relates to capabilities the 
        Secretary assesses to be critical to maintain or restore the 
        comparative military advantage of the United States.
    (c) Notification Required.--The Secretary shall provide the 
congressional committees a written notification not later than 15 days 
after any decision to suspend or terminate a cooperative defense 
technology program due to the risk or occurrence of technology transfer 
to the People's Republic of China or the Russian Federation.

SEC. 239. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR PRIZES FOR ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY 
              ACHIEVEMENTS.

    Section 2374a(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
and Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment,''.

SEC. 240. USE OF FUNDS FOR STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH PROGRAM, 
              ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY TECHNICAL CERTIFICATION PROGRAM, 
              AND OPERATIONAL ENERGY CAPABILITY IMPROVEMENT.

    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for 
the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, test, 
and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 4201 for 
the Strategic Environmental Research Program, Operational Energy 
Capability Improvement, and the Environmental Security Technical 
Certification Program, the Secretary of Defense shall expend amounts as 
follows:
            (1) Not less than $10,000,000 on the development and 
        demonstration of long duration on-site energy battery storage 
        for distributed energy assets.
            (2) Not less than $10,000,000 on the development, 
        demonstration, and validation of non-fluorine based 
        firefighting foams.
            (3) Not less than $10,000,000 on the development, 
        demonstration, and validation of secure microgrids for both 
        installations and forward operating bases.
            (4) Not less than $5,000,000 on the development, 
        demonstration, and validation of technologies that can harvest 
        potable water from air.

SEC. 241. FUNDING FOR THE SEA-LAUNCHED CRUISE MISSILE-NUCLEAR ANALYSIS 
              OF ALTERNATIVES.

    (a) Availability of Funding.--Of the amount authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2020 by section 201 for research, 
development, test, and evaluation, at least $5,000,000 shall be 
available for the analysis of alternatives for the Sea-Launched Cruise 
Missile-Nuclear.
    (b) Program of Record.--The Secretary of Defense shall make the 
Sea-Launched Cruise Missile-Nuclear a program of record.

SEC. 242. REVIEW AND ASSESSMENT PERTAINING TO TRANSITION OF DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE-ORIGINATED DUAL-USE TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) In General.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering shall--
            (1) conduct a review of the Department of Defense science 
        and technology enterprise's intellectual property and strategy 
        for awarding exclusive commercial rights to industry partners; 
        and
            (2) assess whether its practices are encouraging or 
        constraining technology diffusion where desirable.
    (b) Elements.--The review and assessment required by subsection (a) 
shall include consideration of the following:
            (1) The retention or relinquishment by the Department of 
        intellectual property rights and the effect thereof.
            (2) The granting by the Department of exclusive commercial 
        rights and the effect thereof.
            (3) The potential of research prizes, vice payment and 
        exclusive commercial rights, on contract as remuneration for 
        science and technology activities.
            (4) The potential of science and technology programs with 
        intellectual property strategies that do not include 
        commercialization monopolies.
            (5) The potential of establishing price ceilings for 
        licenses and commercial sale mandates to discourage selective 
        commercial hoarding.
            (6) The activities of the Department in effect on the day 
        before the date of the enactment of this Act to promulgate to 
        approved users in the commercial sector the intellectual 
        property that the Department retains and their potential 
        applications.
            (7) Such other major factors as may inhibit the diffusion 
        of Department-funded technology in the commercial sector where 
        desirable.
    (c) University Partnership.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
Under Secretary shall partner with a business school or law school of a 
university with resident economics and intellectual property expertise.
    (d) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Under 
        Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
        a report on the findings of the Under Secretary with respect to 
        the review and assessment required by subsection (a).
            (2) Recommendations.--The report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include such recommendations as the Under Secretary may 
        have for legislative or administrative action to improve the 
        diffusion of the intellectual property and technology of the 
        science and technology enterprise of the Department.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4301.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

SEC. 311. USE OF OPERATIONAL ENERGY COST SAVINGS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE.

    Section 2912 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``subsection (b)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (b) or (c), as the case may be,'';
            (2) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``The Secretary of Defense'' and inserting 
        ``Except as provided in subsection (c) with respect to 
        operational energy cost savings, the Secretary of Defense'';
            (3) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) Use of Operational Energy Cost Savings.--The amount that 
remains available for obligation under subsection (a) that relates to 
operational energy cost savings realized by the Department shall be 
used for the implementation of additional operational energy 
resilience, efficiencies, mission assurance, energy conservation, or 
energy security within the department, agency, or instrumentality that 
realized that savings.''.

SEC. 312. USE OF PROCEEDS FROM SALES OF ELECTRICAL ENERGY GENERATED 
              FROM GEOTHERMAL RESOURCES.

    Section 2916(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Except as provided in 
        paragraph (3), proceeds'' and inserting ``Proceeds''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (3).

SEC. 313. ENERGY RESILIENCE PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Modification of Annual Energy Management and Resilience 
Report.--Section 2925(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and 
        Readiness'' after ``Mission Assurance'';
            (2) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting 
        ``The Secretary shall ensure that mission operators of critical 
        facilities provide to personnel of military installations any 
        information necessary for the completion of such report.'' 
        after ``by the Secretary.'';
            (3) in paragraph (4), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``megawatts'' and inserting ``electric and 
        thermal loads''; and
            (4) in paragraph (5), by striking ``megawatts'' and 
        inserting ``electric and thermal loads''.
    (b) Funding for Energy Program Offices.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretaries of the military 
        departments shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report stating whether the program offices 
        specified in paragraph (2) are funded--
                    (A) at proper levels to ensure that the energy 
                resilience requirements of the Department of Defense 
                are met; and
                    (B) at levels that are not less than in any 
                previous fiscal year.
            (2) Program offices specified.--The program offices 
        specified in this paragraph are the following:
                    (A) The Power Reliability Enhancement Program of 
                the Army.
                    (B) The Office of Energy Initiatives of the Army.
                    (C) The Office of Energy Assurance of the Air 
                Force.
                    (D) The Resilient Energy Program Office of the 
                Navy.
            (3) Funding plan.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretaries of the military 
                departments shall include in the report submitted under 
                paragraph (1) a funding plan for the next five fiscal 
                years beginning after the date of the enactment of this 
                Act to ensure that funding levels are, at a minimum, 
                maintained during that period.
                    (B) Elements.--The funding plan under subparagraph 
                (A) shall include, for each fiscal year covered by the 
                plan, an identification of the amounts to be used for 
                the accomplishment of energy resilience goals and 
                objectives.
    (c) Establishment of Targets for Water Use.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall, where life-cycle cost-effective, improve water use 
efficiency and management by the Department of Defense, including storm 
water management, by--
            (1) installing water meters and collecting and using water 
        balance data of buildings and facilities to improve water 
        conservation and management;
            (2) reducing industrial, landscaping, and agricultural 
        water consumption in gallons by two percent annually through 
        fiscal year 2030 relative to a baseline of such consumption by 
        the Department in fiscal year 2010; and
            (3) installing appropriate sustainable infrastructure 
        features on installations of the Department to help with storm 
        water and wastewater management.

SEC. 314. NATIVE AMERICAN INDIAN LANDS ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 160 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2712. Native American lands environmental mitigation program
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense may establish and 
carry out a program to mitigate the environmental effects of actions by 
the Department of Defense on Indian lands and culturally connected 
locations.
    ``(b) Program Activities.--The activities that may be carried out 
under the program established under subsection (a) are the following:
            ``(1) Identification, investigation, and documentation of 
        suspected environmental effects attributable to past actions by 
        the Department of Defense.
            ``(2) Development of mitigation options for such 
        environmental effects, including development of cost-to-
        complete estimates and a system for prioritizing mitigation 
        actions.
            ``(3) Direct mitigation actions that the Secretary 
        determines are necessary and appropriate to mitigate the 
        adverse environmental effects of past actions by the 
        Department.
            ``(4) Demolition and removal of unsafe buildings and 
        structures used by, under the jurisdiction of, or formerly used 
        by or under the jurisdiction of the Department.
            ``(5) Training, technical assistance, and administrative 
        support to facilitate the meaningful participation of Indian 
        tribes in mitigation actions under the program.
            ``(6) Development and execution of a policy governing 
        consultation with Indian tribes that have been or may be 
        affected by action by the Department, including training 
        personnel of the Department to ensure compliance with the 
        policy.
    ``(c) Cooperative Agreements.--(1) In carrying out the program 
established under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may enter 
into a cooperative agreement with an Indian tribe or an instrumentality 
of tribal government.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, a cooperative 
agreement under this section may be used to acquire property or 
services for the direct benefit of the United States Government.
    ``(3) A cooperative agreement under this section for the 
procurement of severable services may begin in one fiscal year and end 
in another fiscal year only if the total period of performance does not 
exceed two calendar years.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `Indian land' includes--
                    ``(A) any land located within the boundaries and a 
                part of an Indian reservation, pueblo, or rancheria;
                    ``(B) any land that has been allotted to an 
                individual Indian but has not been conveyed to such 
                Indian with full power of alienation;
                    ``(C) Alaska Native village and regional 
                corporation lands; and
                    ``(D) lands and waters upon which any Federally 
                recognized Indian tribe has rights reserved by treaty, 
                act of Congress, or action by the President.
            ``(2) The term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 2701(d)(4)(A) of this title.
            ``(3) The term `culturally connected location' means a 
        location or place that has demonstrable significance to Indians 
        or Alaska Natives based on its association with the traditional 
        beliefs, customs, and practices of a living community, 
        including locations or places where religious, ceremonial, 
        subsistence, medicinal, economic, or other lifeways practices 
        have historically taken place.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 160 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2711 the following new item:

``2712. Native American lands environmental mitigation program.''.

SEC. 315. REIMBURSEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY FOR CERTAIN 
              COSTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE TWIN CITIES ARMY AMMUNITION 
              PLANT, MINNESOTA.

    (a) Transfer Amount.--Notwithstanding section 2215 of title 10, 
United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may transfer to the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency--
            (1) in fiscal year 2020, not more than $890,790; and
            (2) in each of fiscal years 2021 through 2026, not more 
        than $150,000.
    (b) Purpose of Reimbursement.--The amount authorized to be 
transferred under subsection (a) is to reimburse the Environmental 
Protection Agency for costs the Agency has incurred and will incur 
relating to the response actions performed at the Twin Cities Army 
Ammunition Plant, Minnesota, through September 30, 2025.
    (c) Interagency Agreement.--The reimbursement described in 
subsection (b) is intended to satisfy certain terms of the interagency 
agreement entered into by the Department of the Army and the 
Environmental Protection Agency for the Twin Cities Army Ammunition 
Plant that took effect in December 1987 and that provided for the 
recovery of expenses by the Agency from the Department of the Army.

SEC. 316. PROHIBITION ON USE OF PERFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES AND 
              POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES FOR LAND-BASED APPLICATIONS OF 
              FIREFIGHTING FOAM.

    (a) Limitation.--After October 1, 2022, no funds of the Department 
of Defense may be obligated or expended to procure firefighting foam 
that contains in excess of one part per billion of perfluoroalkyl 
substances and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
    (b) Prohibition on Use and Disposal of Existing Stocks.--Not later 
than October 1, 2023, the Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) cease the use of firefighting foam containing in excess 
        of one part per billion of perfluoroalkyl substances and 
        polyfluoroalkyl substances; and
            (2) dispose of all existing stocks of such firefighting 
        foam in accordance with the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 
        6901 et seq.).
    (c) Exemption for Shipboard Use.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall not 
apply to firefighting foam for use solely onboard ocean-going vessels.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Perfluoroalkyl substances.--The term ``perfluoroalkyl 
        substances'' means aliphatic substances for which all of the H 
        atoms attached to C atoms in the nonfluorinated substance from 
        which they are notionally derived have been replaced by F 
        atoms, except those H atoms whose substitution would modify the 
        nature of any functional groups present.
            (2) Polyfluoroalkyl substances.--The term ``polyfluoroalkyl 
        substances'' means aliphatic substances for which all H atoms 
        attached to at least one (but not all) C atoms have been 
        replaced by F atoms, in such a manner that they contain the 
        perfluoroalkyl moiety C&lt;INF&gt;n&lt;/INF&gt;F&lt;INF&gt;2n+1&lt;/INF&gt;_ (for 
        example, 
        C&lt;INF&gt;8&lt;/INF&gt;F&lt;INF&gt;17&lt;/INF&gt;CH&lt;INF&gt;2&lt;/INF&gt;CH&lt;INF&gt;2&lt;/INF&gt;OH).

SEC. 317. TRANSFER AUTHORITY FOR FUNDING OF STUDY AND ASSESSMENT ON 
              HEALTH IMPLICATIONS OF PER- AND POLYFLUOROALKYL 
              SUBSTANCES CONTAMINATION IN DRINKING WATER BY AGENCY FOR 
              TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE REGISTRY.

    Section 316(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1350), as amended by 
section 315(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is amended by striking 
``2019 and 2020'' and inserting ``2019, 2020, and 2021''.

SEC. 318. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS WITH STATES TO ADDRESS CONTAMINATION 
              BY PERFLUOROALKYL AND POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.

    (a) Cooperative Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--Upon request from the Governor or chief 
        executive of a State, the Secretary of Defense shall work 
        expeditiously, pursuant to section 2701(d) of title 10, United 
        States Code, to finalize a cooperative agreement, or amend an 
        existing cooperative agreement to address testing, monitoring, 
        removal, and remedial actions relating to the contamination or 
        suspected contamination of drinking, surface, or ground water 
        from PFAS originating from activities of the Department of 
        Defense by providing the mechanism and funding for the 
        expedited review and approval of documents of the Department 
        related to PFAS investigations and remedial actions from an 
        active or decommissioned military installation, including a 
        facility of the National Guard.
            (2) Minimum standards.--A cooperative agreement finalized 
        or amended under paragraph (1) shall meet or exceed the most 
        stringent of the following standards for PFAS in any 
        environmental media:
                    (A) An enforceable State standard, in effect in 
                that State, for drinking, surface, or ground water, as 
                described in section 121(d)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
                Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
                Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9621(d)(2)(A)(ii)).
                    (B) An enforceable Federal standard for drinking, 
                surface, or ground water, as described in section 
                121(d)(2)(A)(i) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
                Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
                U.S.C. 9621(d)(2)(A)(i)).
    (b) Report.--Beginning on February 1, 2020, if a cooperative 
agreement is not finalized or amended under subsection (a) within one 
year after the request from the Governor or chief executive under that 
subsection, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the appropriate committees and Members of Congress a report--
            (1) explaining why the agreement has not been finalized or 
        amended, as the case may be; and
            (2) setting forth a projected timeline for finalizing or 
        amending the agreement.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees and members of congress.--The 
        term ``appropriate committees and Members of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the congressional defense committees;
                    (B) the Senators who represent a State impacted by 
                PFAS contamination described in subsection (a)(1); and
                    (C) the Members of the House of Representatives who 
                represent a district impacted by such contamination.
            (2) Fully fluorinated carbon atom.--The term ``fully 
        fluorinated carbon atom'' means a carbon atom on which all the 
        hydrogen substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
            (3) PFAS.--The term ``PFAS'' means perfluoroalkyl and 
        polyfluoroalkyl substances that are man-made chemicals with at 
        least one fully fluorinated carbon atom.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental 
        Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
        9601).

SEC. 319. MODIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL 
              RESTORATION AUTHORITIES TO INCLUDE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT 
              FACILITIES USED BY NATIONAL GUARD.

    (a) Definition of Facility.--Section 2700(2) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The terms'' and inserting ``(A) The 
        terms''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(B) The term `facility' includes real property that is 
        owned by, leased to, or otherwise possessed by the United 
        States at locations at which military activities are conducted 
        under this title or title 32 (including real property owned or 
        leased by the Federal Government that is licensed to and 
        operated by a State for training for the National Guard).''.
    (b) Inclusion of Pollutants and Contaminants in Environmental 
Response Actions.--Section 2701(c) of such title is amended by 
inserting ``or pollutants or contaminants'' after ``hazardous 
substances'' each place it appears.
    (c) Establishment of Environmental Restoration Accounts.--Section 
2703(a) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraphs:
            ``(6) An account to be known as the `Environmental 
        Restoration Account, Army National Guard' (for real property 
        owned or leased by the Federal Government that is licensed to 
        and operated by a State for training for the Army National 
        Guard).
            ``(7) An account to be known as the `Environmental 
        Restoration Account, Air National Guard' (for real property 
        owned or leased by the Federal Government that is licensed to 
        and operated by a State for training for the Air National 
        Guard).''.

SEC. 320. BUDGETING OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE RELATING TO EXTREME 
              WEATHER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall include in the 
annual budget submission of the President under section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code--
            (1) a dedicated budget line item for adaptation to, and 
        mitigation of, effects of extreme weather on military networks, 
        systems, installations, facilities, and other assets and 
        capabilities of the Department of Defense; and
            (2) an estimate of the anticipated adverse impacts to the 
        readiness of the Department and the financial costs to the 
        Department during the year covered by the budget of the loss 
        of, or damage to, military networks, systems, installations, 
        facilities, and other assets and capabilities of the 
        Department, including loss of or obstructed access to training 
        ranges, as a result extreme weather events.
    (b) Disaggregation of Impacts and Costs.--The estimate under 
subsection (a)(2) shall set forth the adverse readiness impacts and 
financial costs under that subsection by military department, Defense 
Agency, and other component or element of the Department.
    (c) Extreme Weather Defined.--In this section, the term ``extreme 
weather'' means recurrent flooding, drought, desertification, 
wildfires, and thawing permafrost.

SEC. 321. PILOT PROGRAM FOR AVAILABILITY OF WORKING-CAPITAL FUNDS FOR 
              INCREASED COMBAT CAPABILITY THROUGH ENERGY OPTIMIZATION.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 2208 of title 10, United 
States Code, the Secretary of Defense and the military departments may 
use a working capital fund established pursuant to that section for 
expenses directly related to conducting a pilot program for energy 
optimization initiatives described in subsection (b).
    (b) Energy Optimization Initiatives.--Energy optimization 
initiatives covered by the pilot program include the research, 
development, procurement, installation, and sustainment of technologies 
or weapons system platforms, and the manpower required to do so, that 
would improve the efficiency and maintainability, extend the useful 
life, lower maintenance costs, or provide performance enhancement of 
the weapon system platform or major end item.
    (c) Limitation on Certain Projects.--Funds may not be used pursuant 
to subsection (a) for--
            (1) any product improvement that significantly changes the 
        performance envelope of an end item; or
            (2) any single component with an estimated total cost in 
        excess of $10,000,000.
    (d) Limitation in Fiscal Year Pending Timely Report.--If during any 
fiscal year the report required by paragraph (1) of subsection (e) is 
not submitted by the date specified in paragraph (2) of that 
subsection, funds may not be used pursuant to subsection (a) during the 
period--
            (1) beginning on the date specified in such paragraph (2); 
        and
            (2) ending on the date of the submittal of the report.
    (e) Annual Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit an 
        annual report to the congressional defense committees on the 
        use of the authority under subsection (a) during the preceding 
        fiscal year.
            (2) Deadline for submittal.--The report required by 
        paragraph (1) in a fiscal year shall be submitted not later 
        than 60 days after the date of the submittal to Congress of the 
        budget of the President for the succeeding fiscal year pursuant 
        to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code.
            (3) Recommendation.--In the case of the report required to 
        be submitted under paragraph (1) during fiscal year 2020, the 
        report shall include the recommendation of the Secretary of 
        Defense and the military departments regarding whether the 
        authority under subsection (a) should be made permanent.
    (f) Sunset.--The authority under subsection (a) shall expire on 
October 1, 2024.

SEC. 322. REPORT ON EFFORTS TO REDUCE HIGH ENERGY INTENSITY AT MILITARY 
              INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) Report.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than September 1, 2020, the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in 
        conjunction with the assistant secretaries responsible for 
        installations and environment for the military departments and 
        the Defense Logistics Agency, shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report detailing the efforts to achieve 
        cost savings at military installations with high energy 
        intensity.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following elements:
                    (A) A comprehensive, installation-specific 
                assessment of feasible and mission-appropriate energy 
                initiatives supporting energy production and 
                consumption at military installations with high energy 
                intensity.
                    (B) An assessment of current sources of energy in 
                areas with high energy intensity and potential future 
                sources that are technologically feasible, cost-
                effective, and mission-appropriate for military 
                installations.
                    (C) A comprehensive implementation strategy to 
                include required investment for feasible energy 
                efficiency options determined to be the most beneficial 
                and cost-effective, where appropriate, and consistent 
                with priorities of the Department of Defense.
                    (D) An explanation on how the military departments 
                are working collaboratively in order to leverage 
                lessons learned on potential energy efficiency 
                solutions.
                    (E) An assessment of the extent to which activities 
                administered under the Federal Energy Management 
                Program of the Department of Energy could be used to 
                assist with the implementation strategy under 
                subparagraph (C).
                    (F) An assessment of State and local partnership 
                opportunities that could achieve efficiency and cost 
                savings, and any legislative authorities required to 
                carry out such partnerships or agreements.
            (3) Coordination with state, local, and other entities.--In 
        preparing the report required under paragraph (1), the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment may work 
        in conjunction and coordinate with the States containing areas 
        of high energy intensity, local communities, and other Federal 
        agencies.
    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``high energy 
intensity'' means costs for the provision of energy by kilowatt of 
electricity or British Thermal Unit of heat or steam for a military 
installation in the United States that is in the highest 20 percent of 
all military installations for a military department.

SEC. 323. TECHNICAL AND GRAMMATICAL CORRECTIONS AND REPEAL OF OBSOLETE 
              PROVISIONS RELATING TO ENERGY.

    (a) Technical and Grammatical Corrections.--
            (1) Technical corrections.--Title 10, United States Code, 
        is amended--
                    (A) in section 2913(c), by striking ``government'' 
                and inserting ``government or''; and
                    (B) in section 2926(d)(1), in the second sentence, 
                by striking ``Defense Agencies'' and inserting ``the 
                Defense Agencies''.
            (2) Grammatical corrections.--Such title is further 
        amended--
                    (A) in section 2922a(d), by striking ``resilience 
                are prioritized and included'' and inserting ``energy 
                resilience are included as critical factors''; and
                    (B) in section 2925(a)(3), by striking ``impacting 
                energy'' and all that follows through the period at the 
                end and inserting ``degrading energy resilience at 
                military installations (excluding planned outages for 
                maintenance reasons), whether caused by on- or off-
                installation disruptions, including the total number of 
                outages and their locations, the duration of each 
                outage, the financial effect of each outage, whether or 
                not the mission was affected, the downtimes (in minutes 
                or hours) the mission can afford based on mission 
                requirements and risk tolerances, the responsible 
                authority managing the utility, and measures taken to 
                mitigate the outage by the responsible authority.''.
    (b) Clarification of Applicability of Conflicting Amendments Made 
by 2018 Defense Authorization Act.--Section 2911(e) of such title is 
amended--
            (1) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the 
        following new paragraphs:
            ``(1) Opportunities to reduce the current rate of 
        consumption of energy, the future demand for energy, and the 
        requirement for the use of energy.
            ``(2) Opportunities to enhance energy resilience to ensure 
        the Department of Defense has the ability to prepare for and 
        recover from energy disruptions that affect mission assurance 
        on military installations.''; and
            (2) by striking the second paragraph (13).
    (c) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of section 2926 of such 
        title is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2926. Operational energy''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 173 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 2926 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``2926. Operational energy.''.

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

SEC. 331. REQUIREMENT FOR MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE AIR 
              FORCE AND THE NAVY REGARDING DEPOT MAINTENANCE.

    Before the Secretary of the Navy transfers any maintenance action 
on a platform to a depot under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the 
Air Force or the Secretary of the Air Force transfers any maintenance 
action on a platform to a depot under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
of the Navy, the Air Logistics Complex Commander and the Commander of 
Naval Air Systems Command shall enter into a joint memorandum of 
understanding that lists out responsibilities for work and technical 
oversight responsibilities for such maintenance.

SEC. 332. MODIFICATION TO LIMITATION ON LENGTH OF OVERSEAS FORWARD 
              DEPLOYMENT OF NAVAL VESSELS.

    Section 323 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) Extension of Limitation on Length of Overseas Forward 
Deployment for U.S.S. Shiloh (CG-67).--Notwithstanding subsection (b), 
the Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that the U.S.S. Shiloh (CG-67) 
is assigned a homeport in the United States by not later than September 
30, 2023.''.

                          Subtitle D--Reports

SEC. 341. REPORT ON MODERNIZATION OF JOINT PACIFIC ALASKA RANGE 
              COMPLEX.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report on the long-term modernization of the Joint Pacific Alaska Range 
Complex (in this section referred to as the ``JPARC'').
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An assessment of the requirement for the JPARC to 
        provide realistic training against modern adversaries, 
        including 5th generation adversary aircraft and ground threats, 
        and any current limitations compared to those requirements.
            (2) An assessment of the requirement for JPARC to provide a 
        realistic anti-access area denial training environment and any 
        current limitations compared to those requirements.
            (3) An assessment of the requirement to modernize the JPARC 
        to provide realistic threats in a large-scale, combined-arms 
        near-peer environment and any current limitations in meeting 
        that requirement. The assessment should include--
                    (A) target sets;
                    (B) early warning and surveillance systems;
                    (C) threat systems;
                    (D) real-time communications capacity and security;
                    (E) instrumentation and enabling mission data 
                fusion capabilities; and
                    (F) such other range deficiencies as the Secretary 
                of the Air Force considers appropriate to identify.
            (4) A plan for balancing coalition training against 
        training only for members of the Armed Forces of the United 
        States at the JPARC.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

SEC. 351. STRATEGY TO IMPROVE INFRASTRUCTURE OF CERTAIN DEPOTS OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Strategy Required.--Not later than October 1, 2020, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a comprehensive strategy for improving the depot 
infrastructure of the military departments with the objective of 
ensuring that all covered depots have the capacity and capability to 
support the readiness and material availability goals of current and 
future weapon systems of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
            (1) A comprehensive review of the conditions and 
        performance at each covered depot, including the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the current status of the 
                following elements:
                            (i) Cost and schedule performance of the 
                        depot.
                            (ii) Material availability of weapon 
                        systems supported at the depot and the impact 
                        of the performance of the depot on that 
                        availability.
                            (iii) Work in progress and non-operational 
                        items awaiting depot maintenance.
                            (iv) The condition of the depot.
                            (v) The backlog of restoration and 
                        modernization projects at the depot.
                            (vi) The condition of equipment at the 
                        depot.
                    (B) An identification of analytically based goals 
                relating to the elements identified in subparagraph 
                (A).
            (2) A business-case analysis that assesses investment 
        alternatives comparing cost, performance, risk, and readiness 
        outcomes and recommends an optimal investment approach across 
        the Department of Defense to ensure covered depots efficiently 
        and effectively meet the readiness goals of the Department, 
        including an assessment of the following alternatives:
                    (A) The minimum investment necessary to meet 
                investment requirements under section 2476 of title 10, 
                United States Code.
                    (B) The investment necessary to ensure the current 
                inventory of facilities at covered depots can meet the 
                mission-capable, readiness, and contingency goals of 
                the Secretary of Defense.
                    (C) The investment necessary to execute the depot 
                infrastructure optimization plans of each military 
                department.
                    (D) Any other strategies for investment in covered 
                depots, as identified by the Secretary.
            (3) A plan to improve conditions and performance of covered 
        depots that identifies the following:
                    (A) The approach of the Secretary of Defense for 
                achieving the goals outlined in paragraph (1)(B).
                    (B) The resources and investments required to 
                implement the plan.
                    (C) The activities and milestones required to 
                implement the plan.
                    (D) A results-oriented approach to assess--
                            (i) the progress of each military 
                        department in achieving such goals; and
                            (ii) the progress of the Department in 
                        implementing the plan.
                    (E) Organizational roles and responsibilities for 
                implementing the plan.
                    (F) A process for conducting regular management 
                review and coordination of the progress of each 
                military department in implementing the plan and 
                achieving such goals.
                    (G) The extent to which the Secretary has addressed 
                recommendations made by the Comptroller General of the 
                United States relating to depot operations during the 
                five-year period preceding the date of submittal of the 
                strategy under this section.
                    (H) Risks to implementing the plan and mitigation 
                strategies to address those risks.
    (c) Annual Report on Progress.--As part of the annual budget 
submission of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report describing the progress made in--
            (1) implementing the strategy under subsection (a); and
            (2) achieving the goals outlined in subsection (b)(1)(B).
    (d) Comptroller General Reports.--
            (1) Assessment of strategy.--Not later than January 1, 
        2021, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit 
        to the congressional defense committees a report assessing the 
        extent to which the strategy under subsection (a) meets the 
        requirements of this section.
            (2) Assessment of implementation.--Not later than April 1, 
        2022, the Comptroller General shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report setting forth an assessment of the 
        extent to which the strategy under subsection (a) has been 
        effectively implemented by each military department and the 
        Secretary of Defense.
    (e) Covered Depot Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
depot'' has the meaning given that term in section 2476(e) of title 10, 
United States Code.

SEC. 352. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS REGARDING THE BASING OF KC-46A 
              AIRCRAFT OUTSIDE THE CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES.

    (a) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall 
        submit to Congress a report on the projected plan and timeline 
        for strategic basing of the KC-46A aircraft outside the 
        continental United States.
            (2) Elements.--In considering basing options in the report 
        required by paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Air Force shall 
        consider locations that--
                    (A) support day-to-day air refueling operations, 
                operations plans of the combatant commands, and 
                flexibility for contingency operations, and have--
                            (i) a strategic location that is essential 
                        to the defense of the United States and its 
                        interests;
                            (ii) receivers for boom or probe-and-drogue 
                        combat training opportunities with joint and 
                        international partners; and
                            (iii) sufficient airfield and airspace 
                        availability and capacity to meet requirements; 
                        and
                    (B) possess facilities that--
                            (i) take full advantage of existing 
                        infrastructure to provide--
                                    (I) runways, hangars, and aircrew 
                                and maintenance operations; and
                                    (II) sufficient fuel receipt, 
                                storage, and distribution for a five-
                                day peacetime operating stock; and
                            (ii) minimize overall construction and 
                        operational costs.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Not more than 85 percent of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2020 for the Air Force for operation and 
maintenance for the Management Headquarters Program (Program Element 
92398F) may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of the Air 
Force submits the report required by subsection (a) unless the 
Secretary of the Air Force certifies to Congress that the use of 
additional funds is mission essential.

SEC. 353. PREVENTION OF ENCROACHMENT ON MILITARY TRAINING ROUTES AND 
              MILITARY OPERATIONS AREAS.

    Section 183a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(6)--
                    (A) by striking ``radar or airport surveillance 
                radar operated'' and inserting ``radar, airport 
                surveillance radar, or wide area surveillance over-the-
                horizon radar operated''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``Any setback for a project 
                pursuant to the previous sentence shall not be more 
                than what is determined to be necessary by a technical 
                analysis conducted by the Lincoln Laboratory at the 
                Massachusetts Institute of Technology or any successor 
                entity.'' after ``mitigation options.'';
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(E), by striking ``to a Deputy 
                Secretary of Defense, an Under Secretary of Defense, or 
                a Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense'' and 
                inserting ``to the Deputy Secretary of Defense, an 
                Under Secretary of Defense, or a Deputy Under Secretary 
                of Defense'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraph (3):
            ``(3) The governor of a State may recommend to the 
        Secretary of Defense additional geographical areas of concern 
        within that State. Any such recommendation shall be submitted 
        for notice and comment pursuant to paragraph (2)(C).'';
            (3) in subsection (e)(3), by striking ``an under secretary 
        of defense, or a deputy under secretary of defense'' and 
        inserting ``an Under Secretary of Defense, or a Deputy Under 
        Secretary of Defense'';
            (4) in subsection (f), by striking ``from an applicant for 
        a project filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant 
        to section 44718 of title 49'' and inserting ``from an entity 
        requesting a review by the Clearinghouse under this section''; 
        and
            (5) in subsection (h)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6), 
                and (7) as paragraphs (4), (5), (6), (7), and (9), 
                respectively;
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraph (3):
            ``(3) The term `governor', with respect to a State, means 
        the chief executive officer of the State.'';
                    (C) in paragraph (7), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``by the Federal Aviation 
                Administration'' and inserting ``by the Administrator 
                of the Federal Aviation Administration''; and
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (7), as 
                redesignated by subparagraph (A), the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(8) The term `State' means the several States, the 
        District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the United 
        States Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.''.

SEC. 354. EXPANSION AND ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITIES ON TRANSFER AND 
              ADOPTION OF MILITARY ANIMALS.

    (a) Transfer and Adoption Generally.--Section 2583 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
                ``Transfer or'' before ``Adoption''; and
                    (B) by striking ``adoption'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``transfer or adoption'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
                ``Transfer or'' before ``Adoption''; and
                    (B) in the first sentence, by striking ``adoption'' 
                and inserting ``transfer or adoption''; and
                    (C) in the second sentence, striking 
                ``adoptability'' and inserting ``transferability or 
                adoptability'';
            (3) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by inserting ``transfer or'' before 
                        ``adoption''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, by'' after 
                        ``recommended priority'';
                    (B) in subparagraphs (A) and (B), by inserting 
                ``adoption'' before ``by'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or 
                organizations'' after ``persons''; and
                    (D) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``by'' and 
                inserting ``transfer to''; and
            (4) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``or 
                Adopted''after ``Transferred'';
                    (B) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking 
                ``transferred'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``transferred or adopted''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``transfer'' each 
                place it appears and inserting ``transfer or 
                adoption''.
    (b) Veterinary Screening and Care for Military Working Dogs to Be 
Retired.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and (h) as 
        subsections (g), (h), and (i), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f) Veterinary Screening and Care for Military Working Dogs To Be 
Retired.--(1)(A) If the Secretary of the military department concerned 
determines that a military working dog should be retired, such 
Secretary shall transport the dog to the Veterinary Treatment Facility 
at Lackland Air Force Base, Texas.
    ``(B) In the case of a contract working dog to be retired, 
transportation required by subparagraph (A) is satisfied by the 
transfer of the dog to the 341st Training Squadron at the end of the 
dog's service life as required by section 2410r of this title and 
assignment of the dog to the Veterinary Treatment Facility referred to 
in that subparagraph.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each dog 
transported as described in paragraph (1) to the Veterinary Treatment 
Facility referred to in that paragraph is provided with a full 
veterinary screening, and necessary veterinary care (including surgery 
for any mental, dental, or stress-related illness), before 
transportation of the dog in accordance with subsection (g).
    ``(B) For purposes of this paragraph, stress-related illness 
includes illness in connection with post-traumatic stress, anxiety that 
manifests in a physical ailment, obsessive compulsive behavior, and any 
other stress-related ailment.
    ``(3) Transportation is not required under paragraph (1), and 
screening and care is not required under paragraph (2), for a military 
working dog located outside the United States if the Secretary of the 
military department concerned determines that transportation of the dog 
to the United States would not be in the best interests of the dog for 
medical reasons.''.
    (c) Coordination of Screening and Care Requirements With 
Transportation Requirements.--Subsection (g) of such section, as 
redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended to read 
as follows:
    ``(g) Transportation of Retiring Military Working Dogs.--Upon 
completion of veterinary screening and care for a military working dog 
to be retired pursuant to subsection (f), the Secretary of the military 
department concerned shall--
            ``(1) if the dog was at a location outside the United 
        States immediately prior to transportation for such screening 
        and care and a United States citizen or member of the armed 
        forces living abroad agrees to adopt the dog, transport the dog 
        to such location for adoption; or
            ``(2) for any other dog, transport the dog--
                    ``(A) to the 341st Training Squadron;
                    ``(B) to another location within the United States 
                for transfer or adoption under this section.''.
    (d) Preservation of Policy on Transfer of Military Working Dogs to 
Law Enforcement Agencies.--Subsection (h) of such section, as so 
redesignated, is amended in paragraph (3) by striking ``adoption of 
military working dogs'' and all that follows through the period at the 
end and inserting ``transfer of military working dogs to law 
enforcement agencies before the end of the dogs' useful working 
lives.''.
    (e) Clarification of Horses Treatable as Military Animals.--
Subsection (i) of such section, as so redesignated, is amended by 
striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) An equid (horse, mule, or donkey) owned by the 
        Department of Defense.''.
    (f) Contract Term for Contract Working Dogs.--Section 2410r(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``, and shall contain a contract term,'' 
        after ``shall require'';
            (2) by inserting ``and assigned for veterinary screening 
        and care in accordance with section 2583 of this title'' after 
        ``341st Training Squadron''; and
            (3) by striking ``section 2583 of this title'' and 
        inserting ``such section''.

SEC. 355. LIMITATION ON CONTRACTING RELATING TO DEFENSE PERSONAL 
              PROPERTY PROGRAM.

    (a) Contracting Prohibition.--The Secretary of Defense may not 
enter into or award any single or multiple-award contract to a single-
source or multiple-vendor commercial provider for the management of the 
Defense Personal Property Program during the period beginning on the 
date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the date that is 60 
days after the date on which the Comptroller General of the United 
States submits to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
administration of the Defense Personal Property Program, which was 
requested by the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate to be 
submitted to the congressional defense committees not later than 
February 15, 2020.
    (b) Review of Proposals.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as preventing the Secretary of Defense from reviewing or 
evaluating any solicited or unsolicited proposals to improve the 
Defense Personal Property Program.

SEC. 356. PROHIBITION ON SUBJECTIVE UPGRADES BY COMMANDERS OF UNIT 
              RATINGS IN MONTHLY READINESS REPORTING ON MILITARY UNITS.

    (a) In General.--The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall 
modify Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 
3401.02B, on Force Readiness Reporting, to prohibit the commander of a 
military unit who is responsible for monthly reporting of the readiness 
of the unit under the instruction from making any upgrade of the 
overall rating of the unit (commonly referred to as the ``C-rating'') 
for such reporting purposes based in whole or in part on subjective 
factors.
    (b) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The modification required by subsection 
        (a) shall authorize an officer in a general or flag officer 
        grade in the chain of command of a commander described in that 
        subsection to waive the prohibition described in that 
        subsection in connection with readiness reporting on the unit 
        concerned if the officer considers the waiver appropriate in 
        the circumstances.
            (2) Reporting on waivers.--Each report on personnel and 
        unit readiness submitted to Congress for a calendar year 
        quarter pursuant to section 482 of title 10, United States 
        Code, shall include information on each waiver, if any, issued 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) during such calendar year quarter.

SEC. 357. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY INSTALLATION REUTILIZATION AUTHORITY 
              FOR ARSENALS, DEPOTS, AND PLANTS.

    Section 345(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2667 note) is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.

SEC. 358. CLARIFICATION OF FOOD INGREDIENT REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD OR 
              BEVERAGES PROVIDED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--Before making any final rule, statement, or 
determination regarding the limitation or prohibition of any food or 
beverage ingredient in military food service, military medical foods, 
commissary food, or commissary food service, the Secretary of Defense 
shall publish in the Federal Register a notice of a preliminary rule, 
statement, or determination (in this section referred to as a 
``proposed action'') and provide opportunity for public comment.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--The Secretary shall include in any 
notice published under subsection (a) the following:
            (1) The date and contact information for the appropriate 
        office at the Department of Defense.
            (2) A summary of the notice.
            (3) A date for comments to be submitted and specific 
        methods for submitting comments.
            (4) A description of the substance of the proposed action.
            (5) Findings and a statement of reason supporting the 
        proposed action.

SEC. 359. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO DEADLINE FOR TRANSITION TO DEFENSE 
              READINESS REPORTING SYSTEM STRATEGIC.

    Section 358(c) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended by striking 
``October 1, 2019'' and inserting ``October 1, 2020''.

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.

    The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel 
as of September 30, 2020, as follows:
            (1) The Army, 480,000.
            (2) The Navy, 340,500.
            (3) The Marine Corps, 186,200.
            (4) The Air Force, 332,800.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.

    (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for 
Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 
30, 2020, as follows:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 336,000.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 189,500.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 59,000.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,500.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 107,700.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 70,100.
            (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
    (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed by 
subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall 
be proportionately reduced by--
            (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to 
        serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which 
        are on active duty (other than for training) at the end of the 
        fiscal year; and
            (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
        organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
        component who are on active duty (other than for training or 
        for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their 
        consent at the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual members 
of the Selected Reserve of any reserve component are released from 
active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for 
such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component 
shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of 
such units and by the total number of such individual members.

SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF THE 
              RESERVES.

    Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 
2020, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time 
active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National 
Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, 
instructing, or training the reserve components:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,595.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 16,511.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 10,155.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,386.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 22,637.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 4,431.

SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).

    (a) In General.--The authorized number of military technicians 
(dual status) as of the last day of fiscal year 2020 for the reserve 
components of the Army and the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 
of title 10, United States Code) shall be the following:
            (1) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
        22,294.
            (2) For the Army Reserve, 6,492.
            (3) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 
        13,569.
            (4) For the Air Force Reserve, 8,938.
    (b) Variance.--Notwithstanding section 115 of title 10, United 
States Code, the end strength prescribed by subsection (a) for a 
reserve component specified in that subsection may be increased--
            (1) by 3 percent, upon determination by the Secretary of 
        Defense that such action is in the national interest; and
            (2) by 2 percent, upon determination by the Secretary of 
        the military department concerned that such action would 
        enhance manning and readiness in essential units or in critical 
        specialties or ratings.
    (c) Limitation.--Under no circumstances may a military technician 
(dual status) employed under the authority of this section be coerced 
by a State into accepting an offer of realignment or conversion to any 
other military status, including as a member of the Active, Guard, and 
Reserve program of a reserve component. If a military technician (dual 
status) declines to participate in such realignment or conversion, no 
further action will be taken against the individual or the individual's 
position.
    (d) Adjustment of Authorized Strength.--
            (1) In general.--If, at the end of fiscal year 2019, the 
        Air National Guard of the United States does not meet its full-
        time support realignment goals for such fiscal year (as 
        presented in the justification materials of the Department of 
        Defense in support of the budget of the President for such 
        fiscal year under section 1105 of title 31, United States 
        Code), the authorized number of military technicians (dual 
        status) of the Air National Guard of the United States under 
        subsection (a)(3) shall be increased by the number equal to 
        difference between--
                    (A) 3,190, which is the number of military 
                technicians (dual status) positions in the Air National 
                Guard of the United States sought to be converted to 
                the Active, Guard, and Reserve program of the Air 
                National Guard during fiscal year 2019; and
                    (B) the number of realigned positions achieved in 
                the Air National Guard by the end of fiscal year 2019.
            (2) Limitation.--The increase under paragraph (1) in the 
        authorized number of military technician (dual status) 
        positions described in that paragraph may not exceed 2,292.
            (3) Decrease in authorized number of angus reserves on 
        active duty in support of the reserves.--In the event of an 
        adjustment to the authorized number military technicians (dual 
        status) of the Air National Guard of the United States under 
        this subsection, the number of members of the Air National 
        Guard of the United States authorized by section 412(5) to be 
        on active duty as of September 30, 2020, shall be decreased by 
        the number equal to the number of such adjustment.
    (e) Certification.--Not later than January 1, 2020, the Chief of 
the National Guard Bureau shall certify to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and House of Representatives the number of 
positions realigned from a military technician (dual status) position 
to a position in the Active, Guard, and Reserve program of a reserve 
component in fiscal year 2019.
    (f) Definitions.--In subsections (c), (d), and (e):
            (1) The term ``realigned position'' means any military 
        technician (dual status) position which has been converted or 
        realigned to a position in an Active, Guard, and Reserve 
        program of a reserve component under the full time support 
        rebalancing plan of the Armed Force concerned, regardless of 
        whether such position is encumbered.
            (2) The term ``Active, Guard, and Reserve program'', in the 
        case of a reserve component, means the program of the reserve 
        component under which Reserves serve on full-time active duty 
        or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National 
        Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, 
        recruiting, instructing, or training such reserve component.

SEC. 414. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON 
              ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.

    During fiscal year 2020, the maximum number of members of the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time 
on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is the following:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.

SEC. 415. AUTHORIZED STRENGTHS FOR MARINE CORPS RESERVES ON ACTIVE 
              DUTY.

    (a) Officers.--Section 12011(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by striking that part of the table pertaining to the Marine 
Corps Reserve and inserting the following:
    ``Marine Corps Reserve:


2,400.........................          143           105            34
2,500.........................          149           109            35
2,600.........................          155           113            36
2,700.........................          161           118            37
2,800.........................          167           122            39
2,900.........................          173           126            41
3,000.........................          179           130         42''.
 

    (b) Senior Enlisted Members.--Section 12012(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking that part of the table pertaining 
to the Marine Corps Reserve and inserting the following:
    ``Marine Corps Reserve:


2,400.......................................          106            24
2,500.......................................          112            25
2,600.......................................          116            26
2,700.......................................          121            27
2,800.......................................          125            28
2,900.......................................          130            29
3,000.......................................          134         30''.
 

    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2019, and shall apply with respect to fiscal years 
beginning on or after that date.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for the use of the Armed Forces 
and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4401.
    (b) Construction of Authorization.--The authorization of 
appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of 
appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal 
year 2020.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

SEC. 501. REPEAL OF CODIFIED SPECIFICATION OF AUTHORIZED STRENGTHS OF 
              CERTAIN COMMISSIONED OFFICERS ON ACTIVE DUTY.

    Effective as of October 1, 2020, the text of section 523 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``The total number of commissioned officers serving on active duty 
in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps in each of the grades of major, 
lieutenant colonel, or colonel, or in the Navy in each of the grades of 
lieutenant commander, commander, or captain, at the end of any fiscal 
year shall be as specifically authorized by Act of Congress for such 
fiscal year.''.

SEC. 502. MAKER OF ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS IN A REGULAR OR RESERVE 
              COMPONENT OF COMMISSIONED OFFICERS PREVIOUSLY SUBJECT TO 
              ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT IN OTHER TYPE OF COMPONENT.

    (a) Maker of Regular Appointments in Transfer From Reserve Active-
status List to Active-duty List.--Section 531(c) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``the Secretary concerned'' and 
inserting ``the Secretary of Defense''.
    (b) Maker of Reserve Appointments in Transfer From Active-duty List 
to Reserve Active-status List.--Subsection (b) of section 12203 of such 
title is amended by striking ``the Secretary concerned'' and inserting 
``the Secretary of Defense''.
    (c) Treatment of Regular Appointment as Constructive Reserve 
Appointment To Facilitate Transfer From Active Duty List to Reserve 
Active-status List.--Such section 12203 is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) For purposes of appointments under this section, an officer 
who receives an original appointment as a regular commissioned officer 
in a grade under section 531 of this title that is made on or after the 
date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 shall be deemed also to have received an original 
appointment as a reserve commissioned officer in such grade.''.

SEC. 503. FURNISHING OF ADVERSE INFORMATION ON OFFICERS TO PROMOTION 
              SELECTION BOARDS.

    (a) Expansion of Grades of Officers for Which Information Is 
Furnished.--Section 615(a)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
        striking ``a grade above colonel or, in the case of the Navy, 
        captain,'' and inserting ``a grade specified in subparagraph 
        (B)''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) A grade specified in this subparagraph is as follows:
            ``(i) In the case of a regular officer, a grade above 
        captain or, in the case of the Navy, lieutenant.
            ``(ii) In the case of a reserve officer, a grade above 
        lieutenant colonel or, in the case of the Navy, commander.''.
    (b) Furnishing at Every Phase of Consideration.--Such section is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(C) The standards and procedures referred to in subparagraph (A) 
shall require the furnishing to the selection board, and to each 
individual member of the board, the information described in that 
paragraph with regard to an officer in a grade specified in 
subparagraph (B) at each stage or phase of the selection board, 
concurrent with the screening, rating, assessment, evaluation, 
discussion, or other consideration by the board or member of the 
official military personnel file of the officer, or of the officer.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to the proceedings of promotion selection boards convened under 
section 611(a) of title 10, United States Code, after that date.

SEC. 504. LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF OFFICERS RECOMMENDABLE FOR PROMOTION 
              BY PROMOTION SELECTION BOARDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 616 of title 10, United States Code is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g) as 
        subsections (e), (f), (g), and (h), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) The number of officers recommended for promotion by a 
selection board convened under section 611(a) of this title may not 
exceed the number equal to 95 percent of the number of officers 
included in the promotion zone established under section 623 of this 
title for consideration by the board.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to consideration by promotion selection boards convened under 
section 611(a) of title 10, United States Code, of promotion zones that 
are established under section 623 of that title on or after that date.

SEC. 505. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY FOR CONTINUATION ON ACTIVE DUTY OF 
              OFFICERS IN CERTAIN MILITARY SPECIALTIES AND CAREER 
              TRACKS.

    Section 637a(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``separation or'' after ``provided for the''.

SEC. 506. HIGHER GRADE IN RETIREMENT FOR OFFICERS FOLLOWING REOPENING 
              OF DETERMINATION OR CERTIFICATION OF RETIRED GRADE.

    (a) Advice and Consent of Senate Required for Higher Grade.--
Section 1370(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph (5):
    ``(5) If the retired grade of an officer is proposed to be 
increased through the reopening of the determination or certification 
of officer's retired grade, the increase in the retired grade shall be 
made by the Secretary of Defense, by and with the advice and consent of 
the Senate.''.
    (b) Recalculation of Retired Pay.--Paragraph (6) of such section, 
as redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``or increased'' after ``reduced'';
            (2) by inserting ``as a result of the reduction or 
        increase'' after ``any modification of the retired pay of the 
        officer'';
            (3) by inserting ``or increase'' after ``the reduction''; 
        and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``An 
        officer whose retired grade is increased as described in the 
        preceding sentence shall not be entitled to an increase in 
        retired pay for any period before the effective date of the 
        increase.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply to an 
increase in the retired grade of an officer that occurs through a 
reopening of the determination or certification of the officer's 
retired grade of officer on or after that date, regardless of when the 
officer retired.

SEC. 507. AVAILABILITY ON THE INTERNET OF CERTAIN INFORMATION ABOUT 
              OFFICERS SERVING IN GENERAL OR FLAG OFFICER GRADES.

    (a) Availability Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of each military department 
        shall make available on an Internet website of such department 
        available to the public information specified in paragraph (2) 
        on each officer in a general or flag officer grade under the 
        jurisdiction of such Secretary, including any such officer on 
        the reserve active-status list.
            (2) Information.--The information on an officer specified 
        by this paragraph to be made available pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) is the information as follows:
                    (A) The officer's name.
                    (B) The officer's current grade, duty position, 
                command or organization, and location of assignment.
                    (C) A summary list of the officer's past duty 
                assignments while serving in a general or flag officer 
                grade.
    (b) Additional Public Notice on Certain Officers.--Whenever an 
officer in a grade of O-7 or above is assigned to a new billet or 
reassigned from a current billet, the Secretary of the military 
department having jurisdiction of such officer shall make available on 
an Internet website of such department available to the public a notice 
of such assignment or reassignment.
    (c) Limitation on Withholding of Certain Information or Notice.--
            (1) Limitation.--The Secretary of a military department may 
        not withhold the information or notice specified in subsections 
        (a) and (b) from public availability pursuant to subsection 
        (a), unless and until the Secretary notifies the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
        in writing of the information or notice that will be so 
        withheld, together with justification for withholding the 
        information or notice from public availability.
            (2) Limited duration of withholding.--The Secretary 
        concerned may withhold from the public under paragraph (1) 
        information or notice on an officer only on the bases of 
        individual risk to the officer or in the interest of national 
        security, and may continue to withhold such information or 
        notice only for so long as the basis for withholding remains in 
        force.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

SEC. 511. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR REVIEW OF CERTAIN ARMY RESERVE 
              OFFICER UNIT VACANCY PROMOTIONS BY COMMANDERS OF 
              ASSOCIATED ACTIVE DUTY UNITS.

    Section 1113 of the Army National Guard Combat Readiness Reform Act 
of 1992 (10 U.S.C. 10105 note) is repealed.

                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

SEC. 515. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES ON MANAGEMENT OF DEPLOYMENTS OF 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND RELATED UNIT OPERATING 
              AND PERSONNEL TEMPO MATTERS.

    (a) Limitation on Scope of Delegations of Approval of Exceptions to 
Deployment Thresholds.--Paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of section 991 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``be delegated 
to--'' and all that follows and inserting ``be delegated to a civilian 
officer of the Department of Defense appointed by the President, by and 
with the advice and consent of the Senate.''.
    (b) Separate Policies on Dwell Time for Regular and Reserve 
Members.--Paragraph (4) of such subsection is amended--
            (1) by striking ``addresses the amount'' and inserting 
        ``addresses each of the following:
            ``(1) The amount'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (1) of 
        this subsection, by inserting ``regular'' before ``member''; 
        and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) The amount of dwell time a reserve member of the 
        armed forces remains at the member's permanent duty station 
        after completing a deployment of 30 days or more in length.''.
    (c) Repeal of Authority to Prescribe Alternative Definition of 
``Deployment''.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended by striking 
paragraph (4).

SEC. 516. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT THAT PARENTAL LEAVE BE TAKEN IN ONE 
              INCREMENT.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (i) of section 701 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (5); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through (10) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (9), respectively.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Subsection (j)(4) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``paragraphs (6) through (10)'' and 
        inserting ``paragraphs (5) through (9)''; and
            (2) by striking ``paragraph (9)(B)'' and inserting 
        ``paragraph (8)(B)''.

SEC. 517. DIGITAL ENGINEERING AS A CORE COMPETENCY OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Policy.--
            (1) In general.--It shall be a policy of the Department of 
        Defense to promote and maintain digital engineering as a core 
        competency of the civilian and military workforces of the 
        Department, which policy shall be achieved by--
                    (A) the recruitment, development, and retention of 
                civilian employees and members of the Armed Forces with 
                aptitude, experience, proficient expertise, or a 
                combination thereof in digital engineering in and to 
                the Department;
                    (B) at the discretion of the Secretaries of the 
                military departments, the development and maintenance 
                of civilian and military career tracks on digital 
                engineering, and related digital competencies 
                (including data science, machine learning, software 
                engineering, software product management, and 
                artificial intelligence product management) for 
                civilian employees of the Department and members of the 
                Armed Forces, including the development and maintenance 
                of training, education, talent management, incentives, 
                and promotion policies in support of members at all 
                levels of such career tracks; and
                    (C) the development and application of appropriate 
                readiness standards and metrics to measure and report 
                on the overall capability, capacity, use, and readiness 
                of digital engineering civilian and military workforces 
                to develop and deliver operational capabilities, 
                leverage modern digital engineering technologies, 
                develop advanced capabilities to support military 
                missions, and employ modern business practices.
            (2) Digital engineering.--For purposes of this section, 
        digital engineering is the discipline and set of skills 
        involved in the creation, processing, transmission, 
        integration, and storage of digital data.
    (b) Responsibility.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall appoint a 
civilian official of the Department of Defense, at a level no lower 
than Assistant Secretary of Defense, for the development and discharge 
of the policy set forth in subsection (a). The official so designated 
shall be known as the ``Chief Digital Engineering Recruitment and 
Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' (in this section 
referred to as the ``Officer'').
    (c) Duties.--In developing and providing for the discharge of the 
policy set forth in subsection (a), the Officer shall, in consultation 
with the Secretaries of the miliary departments, do the following:
            (1) Develop recruitment programs with various core 
        initiatives, programs, activities, and mechanisms to identify 
        and recruit civilians employees of the Department of Defense 
        and members of the Armed Forces with demonstrated aptitude, 
        interest, proficient expertise, or a combination thereof, in 
        digital engineering particularly, and in science, technology, 
        engineering, and mathematics (STEM) generally, including 
        initiatives, programs, activities, and mechanisms to target 
        populations of individuals not typically aware of opportunities 
        in the Armed Forces for a digital engineering career.
            (2) Develop and maintain education, training, doctrine, and 
        professional development activities to support digital 
        engineering skills of civilian employees of the Department and 
        members of the Armed Forces.
            (3) Coordinate and synchronize digital force management 
        activities throughout the Department, advise the Secretary of 
        Defense on all matters pertaining to the health and readiness 
        of digital forces, convene a Department-wide executive steering 
        group, and submit to Congress an annual report on the readiness 
        of digital forces and progress toward achieving the policy.
            (4) Create a Department-wide mechanism to track digital 
        expertise in the workforce, develop and maintain organizational 
        policies, strategies, and plans sufficient to build, maintain, 
        and refresh internal capacity at scale, and report to the 
        Secretary quarterly on the health and readiness of digital 
        forces.
            (5) Assist the military departments in designing, 
        developing, and executing programs and incentives to retain, 
        track, and oversee digital expertise among civilian employees 
        of the Department and members of the Armed Forces on active 
        duty.
            (6) At the request of the Chief of Staff of an Armed Force, 
        or the head of another component or element of the Department, 
        undertake an executive search for key leadership positions in 
        digital engineering in such Armed Force, component, or element, 
        and develop and deploy agile hiring and competitive 
        compensation processes to fill such positions.
            (7) Identify necessary changes in authorities, policies, 
        resources, or a combination thereof to further the policy.
            (8) Develop a definition for digital engineering consistent 
        with and aligned to Department needs and processes.
    (d) Plan.--Not later than June 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a plan to meet the requirements of this 
section. The plan shall set forth the following:
            (1) An identification of the Officer.
            (2) A timeline for full implementation of the requirements 
        of this section.
            (3) A description of the career tracks authorized by this 
        section for both the civilian and military workforces of the 
        Department of Defense.
            (4) Recommendations for such legislative or administrative 
        action as the Secretary considers appropriate in connection 
        with implementation of such requirements.

SEC. 518. MODIFICATION OF NOTIFICATION ON MANNING OF AFLOAT NAVAL 
              FORCES.

    (a) Timing of Notification.--Subsection (a) of section 525 of the 
John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
(Public Law 115-232) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``not later than 15 days after any of the following conditions 
        are met:'' and inserting ``not later than 30 days after the end 
        of each fiscal year quarter, of each covered ship (if any) 
        that, as of the last day of such fiscal year quarter, met 
        either condition as follows:''; and
            (2) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking ``is less'' and 
        inserting ``was less''.
    (b) Definitions of Manning Fit and Manning Fill.--Subsection (d) of 
such section is amended in paragraphs (1) and (2) by striking ``the 
billets authorized'' and inserting ``the ship manpower document 
requirement.''.

SEC. 519. REPORT ON EXPANSION OF THE CLOSE AIRMAN SUPPORT TEAM APPROACH 
              OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE OTHER ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretaries of the military departments 
shall jointly submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report setting forth an assessment 
of the Secretaries of the feasibility and advisability of expanding the 
Close Airman Support (CAS) team approach of the Air Force to the other 
Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of such Secretaries.
    (b) Close Airman Support Team Approach.--The Close Airman Support 
team approach of the Air Force referred to in subsection (a) is an 
approach by which personnel associated with an Air Force squadron, and 
led by a senior enlisted member of the squadron, take actions to 
improve relationships and communication among members of the squadron 
in order to promote positive social behaviors among such members as a 
squadron, including an embrace of proactive pursuit of needed 
assistance.
    (c) Scope of Report.--If the Secretaries determine that expansion 
of the Close Airman Support team approach to the other Armed Forces is 
feasible and advisable, the report under subsection (a) shall include a 
description of the manner in which the approach will be carried out in 
the other Armed Forces, including the manner, if any, in which the 
approach will be modified in the other Armed Forces to take into 
account the unique circumstances of such Armed Forces.

            Subtitle D--Military Justice and Related Matters

PART I--MATTERS RELATING TO INVESTIGATION, PROSECUTION, AND DEFENSE OF 
                        SEXUAL ASSAULT GENERALLY

SEC. 521. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-WIDE POLICY AND MILITARY DEPARTMENT-
              SPECIFIC PROGRAMS ON REINVIGORATION OF THE PREVENTION OF 
              SEXUAL ASSAULT INVOLVING MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Policy Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop and issue 
a comprehensive policy for the Department to reinvigorate the 
prevention of sexual assault involving members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Policy Elements.--
            (1) In general.--The policy required by subsection (a) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) Education and training for members of the Armed 
                Forces on the prevention of sexual assault.
                    (B) Elements for programs designed to encourage and 
                promote healthy relationships among members of the 
                Armed Forces.
                    (C) Elements for programs designed to empower and 
                enhance the role of non-commissioned officers in the 
                prevention of sexual assault.
                    (D) Elements for programs to foster social courage 
                among members of the Armed Forces to encourage and 
                promote intervention in situations in order to prevent 
                sexual assault.
                    (E) Processes and mechanisms designed to address 
                behaviors among members of the Armed Forces that are 
                included in the continuum of harm that frequently 
                results in sexual assault.
                    (F) Elements for programs designed to address 
                alcohol abuse, including binge drinking, among members 
                of the Armed Forces.
                    (G) Such other elements, processes, mechanisms, and 
                other matters as the Secretary of Defense considers 
                appropriate.
            (2) Continuum of harm resulting in sexual assault.--For 
        purposes of paragraph (1)(E), the continuum of harm that 
        frequently results in sexual assault includes hazing, sexual 
        harassment, and related behaviors (including language choices, 
        off-hand statements, jokes, and unconscious attitudes or 
        biases) that create a permissive climate for sexual assault.
    (c) Programs Required.--Not later than 180 days after the issuance 
of the policy required by subsection (a), each Secretary of a military 
department shall develop and implement for each Armed Force under the 
jurisdiction of such Secretary a program to reinvigorate the prevention 
of sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces. Each program 
shall include the elements, processes, mechanisms, and other matters 
developed by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (a) 
tailored to the requirements and circumstances of the Armed Force or 
Armed Forces concerned.

SEC. 522. ENACTMENT AND EXPANSION OF POLICY ON WITHHOLDING OF INITIAL 
              DISPOSITION AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN OFFENSES UNDER THE 
              UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE.

    (a) Initial Disposition Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        proper authority for a determination of disposition of reported 
        offenses with respect to any offense specified in subsection 
        (b) shall be an officer in a grade not below the grade of O-6 
        in the chain of command of the subject who is authorized by 
        chapter 47 of such title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) 
        to convene special courts-martial.
            (2) Authority when subject and victim are in different 
        chains of command.--If the victim of an offense specified in 
        subsection (b) is in a different chain of command than the 
        subject, the proper authority under paragraph (1), for any 
        reported offenses in connection with misconduct of the victim 
        arising out of the incident in which the offense is alleged to 
        have occurred, shall be an officer described in that paragraph 
        in the chain of command of the victim.
            (3) Construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall be 
        construed--
                    (A) to prohibit the preferral of charges by an 
                authorized person under section 830(a)(1) of title 10, 
                United States Code (article 30(a)(1) of the Uniform 
                code of Military Justice), with respect to the offenses 
                specified in subsection (b), and the forwarding of such 
                charges as so preferred to the proper authority under 
                paragraph (1) with a recommendation as disposition; or
                    (B) to prohibit an officer in a grade below the 
                grade of O-6 from advising an officer described in 
                paragraph (1) who is making a determination described 
                in that paragraph with respect to the disposition of 
                the offenses involved.
    (b) Covered Offenses.--An offense specified in this subsection is 
any offense as follows:
            (1) An offense under section 893 of title 10, United States 
        Code (article 93 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
        relating to cruelty and maltreatment, if the offense 
        constitutes sexual harassment.
            (2) An offense under section 893a of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 93a of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), relating to prohibited activity with a military 
        recruit or trainee by a person in a position of special trust.
            (3) An offense under section 918 of title 10, United States 
        Code (article 118 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
        relating to murder, if the offense is committed in connection 
        with family abuse or other domestic violence.
            (4) An offense under section 919 of title 10, United States 
        Code (article 119 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
        relating to manslaughter, if the offense is committed in 
        connection with family abuse or other domestic violence.
            (5) An offense under section 919a of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 119a of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), relating to death or injury of an unborn child, if 
        the offense is committed in connection with family abuse or 
        other domestic violence.
            (6) An offense under section 919b of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 119b of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), relating to child endangerment, if the offense is 
        committed in connection with family abuse or other domestic 
        violence.
            (7) An offense under section 920 of title 10, United States 
        Code (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
        relating to rape and sexual assault generally.
            (8) An offense under section 920b of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 120b of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), relating to rape and sexual assault of a child.
            (9) An offense under section 920c of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 120c of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), relating to other sexual misconduct.
            (10) An offense under section 925 of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 125 of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), relating to kidnapping, if the offense is committed 
        in connection with family abuse or other domestic violence.
            (11) An offense under section 928 of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 128 of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), relating to aggravated assault, if the offense is 
        committed in connection with family abuse or other domestic 
        violence.
            (12) An offense under section 928a of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 128a of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), relating to maiming, if the offense is committed in 
        connection with family abuse or other domestic violence.
            (13) An offense under section 928b of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 128b of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), relating to domestic violence.
            (14) An offense under section 930 of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 130 of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), relating to stalking, if the offense is committed in 
        connection with family abuse or other domestic violence.
            (15) An offense under section 932 of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 132 of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), relating to retaliation.
            (16) An offense under section 934 of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), if the offense relates to child pornography.
            (17) An offense under section 934 of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), if the offense--
                    (A) relates to animal abuse; and
                    (B) is committed in connection with family abuse or 
                other domestic violence,
            (18) An offense under section 934 of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), if the offense--
                    (A) relates to negligent homicide; and
                    (B) is committed in connection with family abuse or 
                other domestic violence.
            (19) An attempt to commit an offense specified in a 
        paragraph (1) through (18) as punishable under section 880 of 
        title 10, United States Code (article 80 of the Uniform Code of 
        Military Justice).
    (c) Scope of Disposition Authority With Respect to Particular 
Offenses.--The authority in subsection (a) of an officer to make a 
disposition determination described in that subsection with respect to 
any offense specified in subsection (b) extends to a determination of 
disposition with respect to any other offenses against the subject 
arising out of the incident in which the offense is alleged to have 
occurred.
    (d) Scope of Disposition Determinations.--Except for an offense 
specified in section 818(c) of title 10, United States Code (article 
18(c) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), of which only general 
courts-martial have jurisdiction, the disposition determinations 
permissible in the exercise of the authority under this section with 
respect to charges and specifications are as follows:
            (1) No action.
            (2) Administrative action.
            (3) Imposition of non-judicial punishment.
            (4) Preferral of charges.
            (5) If such charges and specifications were preferred from 
        a subordinate, dismissal of charges or referral to court-
        martial for trial.
            (6) Forwarding to a superior or subordinate authority for 
        further disposition.
    (e) Review of Certain Disposition Determinations.--
            (1) Initial review and recommendation.--If a disposition 
        determination under this section with respect to an offense is 
        for a disposition specified in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of 
        subsection (d) and the legal advisor to the officer making the 
        disposition determination has recommended a disposition 
        specified in paragraph (4), (5), or (6) of that subsection, a 
        Special Victim Prosecutor (SVP), Senior Trial Counsel (STC), or 
        Regional Trial Counsel (RTC) not in the chain of command of the 
        officer making the disposition determination shall--
                    (A) review the disposition determination; and
                    (B) recommend to the staff judge advocate in the 
                chain of command whether to endorse or supersede the 
                disposition determination.
            (2) SJA review and advice.--Upon completion of a review of 
        a recommendation under paragraph (1)(B), the staff judge 
        advocate concerned shall advise the next superior commander in 
        the chain of command of the officer making the original 
        disposition determination whether such disposition 
        determination should be endorsed or superseded.
            (3) Final disposition determination.--After considering 
        advice under paragraph (2) with respect to an original 
        disposition determination, the superior commander concerned 
        shall--
                    (A) make a new disposition determination with 
                respect to the offenses concerned; or
                    (B) endorse the original disposition determination 
                for appropriate further action.
    (f) Training.--
            (1) In general.--The training provided to commissioned 
        officers of the Armed Forces in grades O-6 and above on the 
        exercise of authority pursuant to this section for 
        determinations of the disposition of an offense specified in 
        subsection (b) shall include specific training on such matters 
        in connection with sexual harassment, sexual assault, and 
        family abuse and domestic violence as the Secretary of Defense 
        considers appropriate to make informed disposition 
        determinations under such authority.
            (2) Construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall be 
        construed to deprive a court-martial of jurisdiction based on 
        the level or amount of training received by the disposition 
        authority pursuant to this section.
    (g) Manual for Courts-Martial.--The President shall implement the 
requirement of this section into the Manual for Courts-Martial in 
accordance with section 836 of title 10, United States Code (article 36 
of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).

SEC. 523. TRAINING FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT INITIAL DISPOSITION AUTHORITIES 
              ON EXERCISE OF DISPOSITION AUTHORITY FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT 
              AND COLLATERAL OFFENSES.

    (a) In General.--The training for Sexual Assault Initial 
Disposition Authorities (SAIDAs) on the exercise of disposition 
authority under chapter 47, United States Code (the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), with respect to cases for which disposition 
authority is withheld to such Authorities by the April 20, 2012, 
memorandum of the Secretary of Defense, or any successor memorandum, 
shall include comprehensive training on the exercise by such 
Authorities of such authority with respect to such cases in order to 
enhance the capabilities of such Authorities in the exercise of such 
authority and thereby promote confidence and trust in the military 
justice process with respect to such cases.
    (b) Memorandum of Secretary of Defense.--The April 20, 2012, 
memorandum of the Secretary of Defense referred to in subsection (a) is 
the memorandum of the Secretary of Defense entitled ``Withholding 
Initial Disposition Authority Under the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice in Certain Sexual Assault Cases'' and dated April 20, 2012.

SEC. 524. EXPANSION OF RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMANDERS FOR VICTIMS OF 
              SEXUAL ASSAULT COMMITTED BY ANOTHER MEMBER OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    (a) Notification of Victims of Events in Military Justice 
Process.--
            (1) Notification required.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (2), the commander of a member of the Armed Forces who is the 
        victim of an alleged sexual assault committed by another member 
        of the Armed Forces (whether or not such other member is in the 
        command of such commander) shall provide notification to such 
        victim of every key or other significant event in the military 
        justice process in connection with the investigation, 
        prosecution, and confinement of such other member for alleged 
        sexual assault.
            (2) Election of victim not to receive.--A commander is not 
        required by paragraph (1) to provide notifications to a victim 
        as described in that paragraph if the victim elects not to be 
        provided such notifications.
            (3) Documentation.--Each commander described in paragraph 
        (1) shall create and maintain appropriate documentation on the 
        following:
                    (A) Any notification provided as described in 
                paragraph (1).
                    (B) Any election made pursuant to paragraph (2).
    (b) Documentation of Victim's Preference on Jurisdiction in 
Prosecution.--In the case of a member of the Armed Forces who is the 
victim of an alleged sexual assault committed by another member of the 
Armed Forces who is subject to prosecution for such alleged offense 
both by court-martial under chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code 
(the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and by a civilian court under 
Federal or State law, the commander of such victim shall create and 
maintain appropriate documentation of the expressed preference, if any, 
of such victim for prosecution of such alleged offense by court-martial 
or by a civilian court as provided for by Rule 306(e) of the Rules for 
Court-Martial.
    (c) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe in 
regulations the requirements applicable to each of the following:
            (1) Notifications under subsection (a)(1).
            (2) Elections under subsection (a)(2).
            (3) Documentation under subsection (a)(3).
            (4) Documentation under subsection (b).

SEC. 525. TRAINING FOR COMMANDERS IN THE ARMED FORCES ON THEIR ROLE IN 
              ALL STAGES OF MILITARY JUSTICE IN CONNECTION WITH SEXUAL 
              ASSAULT.

    (a) In General.--The training provided commanders in the Armed 
Forces shall include comprehensive training on the role of commanders 
in all stages of military justice in connection with sexual assaults by 
members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements To Be Covered.--The training provided pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall include training on the following:
            (1) The role of commanders in each stage of the military 
        justice process in connection with sexual assault committed by 
        a member of the Armed Forces, including investigation and 
        prosecution.
            (2) The role of commanders in assuring that victims in 
        sexual assault described in paragraph (1) are informed of, and 
        have the opportunity to obtain, assistance available for 
        victims of sexual assault by law.
            (3) The role of commanders in assuring that victims in 
        sexual assault described in paragraph (1) are afforded the due 
        process rights and protections available to victims by law.
            (4) The role of commanders in preventing retaliation 
        against victims, their family members, witnesses, first 
        responders, and bystanders for their their complaints, 
        statements, testimony, and status in connection with sexual 
        assault described in paragraph (1), including the role of 
        commanders in ensuring that subordinates in the command are 
        aware of their responsibilities in preventing such retaliation.
            (5) The role of commanders in establishing and maintaining 
        a healthy command climate in connection with reporting on 
        sexual assault described in paragraph (1) and in the response 
        of the commander, subordinates in the command, and other 
        personnel in the command to such sexual assault, such 
        reporting, and the military justice process in connection with 
        such sexual assault.
            (6) Any other matters on the role of commanders in 
        connection with sexual assault described in paragraph (1) that 
        the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate for purposes of 
        this section.
    (c) Incorporation of Best Practices.--
            (1) In general.--The training provided pursuant to 
        subsection (a) shall incorporate best practices on all matters 
        covered by the training.
            (2) Identification of best practices.--The Secretaries of 
        the military departments shall, acting through the training and 
        doctrine commands of the Armed Forces, undertake from time to 
        time surveys and other reviews of the matters covered by the 
        training provided pursuant to subsection (a) in order to 
        identify and incorporate into such training the most current 
        practicable best practices on such matters.
    (d) Uniformity.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
training provided pursuant to subsection (a) is, to the extent 
practicable, uniform across the Armed Forces.

SEC. 526. NOTICE TO VICTIMS OF ALLEGED SEXUAL ASSAULT OF PENDENCY OF 
              FURTHER ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION FOLLOWING A DETERMINATION 
              NOT TO REFER TO TRIAL BY COURT-MARTIAL.

    Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, upon a 
determination not to refer a case of alleged sexual assault for trial 
by court-martial under chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), the commander making such 
determination shall periodically notify the victim of the status of a 
final determination on further action on such case, whether non-
judicial punishment under section 815 of such title (article 15 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), other administrative action, or no 
further action. Such notifications shall continue not less frequently 
than monthly until such final determination.

SEC. 527. SAFE TO REPORT POLICY APPLICABLE ACROSS THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Secretaries of the military departments and the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, prescribe in regulations a safe to report policy 
described in subsection (b) that applies with respect to all members of 
the Armed Forces (including members of the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces) and cadets and midshipmen at the military service 
academies.
    (b) Safe to Report Policy.--The safe to report policy described in 
this subsection is a policy under which a member of the Armed Forces 
who is the victim of an alleged sexual assault, but who may have 
committed minor collateral misconduct at or about the time of such 
alleged sexual assault, or whose minor collateral misconduct is 
discovered only as a result of the investigation into such alleged 
sexual assault, may report such alleged sexual assault to proper 
authorities without fear or receipt of discipline in connection with 
such minor collateral misconduct absent aggravating circumstances that 
increase the gravity of the minor collateral misconduct or its impact 
on good order and discipline.
    (c) Minor Collateral Misconduct.--For purposes of the safe to 
report policy, minor collateral misconduct shall include any of the 
following:
            (1) Improper use or possession of alcohol.
            (2) Consensual intimate behavior (including adultery) or 
        fraternization.
            (3) Presence in an off-limits area.
            (4) Such other misconduct as the Secretary of Defense shall 
        specify in the regulations under subsection (a).
    (d) Aggravating Circumstances.--The regulations under subsection 
(a) shall specify aggravating circumstances that increase the gravity 
of minor collateral misconduct or its impact on good order and 
discipline for purposes of the safe to report policy.

SEC. 528. REPORT ON EXPANSION OF AIR FORCE SAFE TO REPORT POLICY ACROSS 
              THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Report.--Not late than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the 
Secretaries of the military departments and the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives a report setting forth an assessment of 
the feasibility and advisability of expanding the applicability of the 
safe to report policy described in subsection (b) so that the policy 
applies across the Armed Forces.
    (b) Safe to Report Policy.--The safe to report policy described in 
this subsection is the policy, currently applicable in the Air Force 
alone, under which a member of the Armed Forces who is the victim of an 
alleged sexual assault committed by another member of the Armed Forces, 
but who may have committed minor collateral misconduct at or about the 
time of such alleged sexual assault, or whose minor collateral 
misconduct at or about such time is discovered only as a result of the 
investigation into such alleged sexual assault, may report such alleged 
sexual assault to proper authorities without fear or receipt of 
discipline in connection with such minor collateral misconduct.

SEC. 529. PROPOSAL FOR SEPARATE PUNITIVE ARTICLE IN THE UNIFORM CODE OF 
              MILITARY JUSTICE ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Joint Service Committee on Military Justice shall submit to 
the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report setting forth recommendations for legislative 
and administrative action required to establish a separate punitive 
article in chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), on sexual harassment.

SEC. 530. TREATMENT OF INFORMATION IN CATCH A SERIAL OFFENDER PROGRAM 
              FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.

    (a) Exclusion From FOIA.--Section 552 of title 5, United States 
Code (commonly referred to as the ``Freedom of Information Act''), 
shall not apply to any report for purposes of the Catch a Serial 
Offender (CATCH) Program.
    (b) Preservation of Restricted Report.--The transmittal or receipt 
in connection with the Catch a Serial Offender Program of a report on a 
sexual assault that is treated as a restricted report shall not operate 
to terminate its treatment or status as a restricted report.

SEC. 531. REPORT ON PRESERVATION OF RECOURSE TO RESTRICTED REPORT ON 
              SEXUAL ASSAULT FOR VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT FOLLOWING 
              CERTAIN VICTIM OR THIRD-PARTY COMMUNICATIONS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report making findings and recommendations on the 
feasibility and advisability of a policy for the Department of Defense 
that would permit a victim of a sexual assault, that is or may be 
investigated as a result of a communication described in subsection 
(b), which victim is a member of the Armed Forces or an adult dependent 
of a member of the Armed Forces, to have the reporting on the sexual 
assault be treated as a restricted report without regard to the party 
initiating or receiving such communication.
    (b) Communications.--A communication described in this subsection 
is a communication reporting a sexual assault as follows:
            (1) By the victim to a member of the Armed Forces, whether 
        a commissioned officer or a noncommissioned officer, in the 
        chain of command of the victim or the victim's military 
        sponsor.
            (2) By the victim to military law enforcement personnel or 
        personnel of a military criminal investigative organization 
        (MCIO).
            (3) By any individual other than victim.
    (c) Scope of Findings and Recommendations.--The report required by 
subsection (a) may include recommendations for new provisions of 
statute or regulations, or modification of current statute or 
regulations, that may be required to put into effect the findings and 
recommendations described in subsection (a).
    (d) Consultation.--In preparing the report required by subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall consult with the Defense Advisory Committee on 
Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed 
Forces (DAC-IPAD) under section 546 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(10 U.S.C. 1561 note).

SEC. 532. AUTHORITY FOR RETURN OF PERSONAL PROPERTY TO VICTIMS OF 
              SEXUAL ASSAULT WHO FILE A RESTRICTED REPORT BEFORE 
              CONCLUSION OF RELATED PROCEEDINGS.

    Section 586 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 1561 note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e);
            (2) in subsection (e), as so redesignated, in the 
        subsection heading, by inserting ``in Unrestricted Reporting 
        Cases'' after ``Proceedings''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Return of Personal Property in Restricted Reporting Cases.--
(1) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe procedures under which a 
victim who files a restricted report on an incident of sexual assault 
may request, at any time, the return of any personal property of the 
victim obtained as part of the sexual assault forensic examination.
    ``(2) The procedures shall ensure that--
            ``(A) a request of a victim under paragraph (1) may be made 
        on a confidential basis and without affecting the restricted 
        nature of the restricted report; and
            ``(B) at the time of the filing of the restricted report, a 
        Sexual Assault Response Coordinator or Sexual Assault 
        Prevention and Response Victim Advocate--
                    ``(i) informs the victim that the victim may 
                request the return of personal property as described in 
                paragraph (1); and
                    ``(ii) advises the victim that such a request for 
                the return of personal property may negatively impact a 
                subsequent case adjudication, if the victim later 
                decides to convert the restricted report to an 
                unrestricted report.
    ``(3) Except with respect to personal property returned to a victim 
under this subsection, nothing in this subsection shall affect the 
requirement to retain a sexual assault forensic examination (SAFE) kit 
for the period specified in subsection (c)(4)(A).''.

SEC. 533. EXTENSION OF DEFENSE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATION, 
              PROSECUTION, AND DEFENSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    Section 546(f)(1) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (10 U.S.C. 1561 
note) is amended by striking ``five'' and inserting ``ten''.

SEC. 534. DEFENSE ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE PREVENTION OF SEXUAL 
              MISCONDUCT.

    (a) Establishment Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
        and maintain within the Department of Defense an advisory 
        committee to be known as the ``Defense Advisory Committee for 
        the Prevention of Sexual Misconduct'' (in this section referred 
        to as the ``Advisory Committee'').
            (2) Deadline for establishment.--The Secretary shall 
        establish the Advisory Committee not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall consist of 
        not more than 20 members, appointed by the Secretary from among 
        individuals who have an expertise appropriate for the work of 
        the Advisory Committee, including at least one individual with 
        each expertise as follows:
                    (A) Expertise in the prevention of sexual assault 
                and behaviors on the sexual assault continuum of harm.
                    (B) Expertise in the prevention of suicide.
                    (C) Expertise in the change of culture of large 
                organizations.
                    (D) Expertise in implementation science.
            (2) Background of individuals.--Individuals appointed to 
        the Advisory Committee may include individuals with expertise 
        in sexual assault prevention efforts of institutions of higher 
        education, public health officials, and such other individuals 
        as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (3) Prohibition on membership of members of armed forces on 
        active duty.--A member of the Armed Forces serving on active 
        duty may not serve as a member of the Advisory Committee.
    (c) Duties.--
            (1) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall advise the 
        Secretary on the following:
                    (A) The prevention of sexual assault (including 
                rape, forcible sodomy, other sexual assault, and other 
                sexual misconduct (including behaviors on the sexual 
                assault continuum of harm)) involving members of the 
                Armed Forces.
                    (B) The policies, programs, and practices of each 
                military department, each Armed Force, and each 
                military service academy for the prevention of sexual 
                assault as described in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Basis for provision of advice.--For purposes of 
        providing advice to the Secretary pursuant to this subsection, 
        the Advisory Committee shall review, on an ongoing basis, the 
        following:
                    (A) Cases involving allegations of sexual assault 
                described in paragraph (1).
                    (B) Efforts of institutions of higher education to 
                prevent sexual assault among students.
                    (C) Any other information or matters that the 
                Advisory Committee or the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (3) Coordination of efforts.--In addition to the reviews 
        required by paragraph (2), for purposes of providing advice to 
        the Secretary the Advisory Committee shall also consult and 
        coordinate with the Defense Advisory Committee on 
        Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in 
        the Armed Forces (DAC-IPAD) on matters of joint interest to the 
        two Advisory Committees.
    (d) Annual Report.--Not later than March 30 each year, the Advisory 
Committee shall submit to the Secretary and the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
activities of the Advisory Committee pursuant to this section during 
the preceding year.
    (e) Sexual Assault Continuum of Harm.--In this section, the term 
``sexual assault continuum of harm'' includes--
            (1) inappropriate actions (such as sexist jokes), sexual 
        harassment, gender discrimination, hazing, cyber bullying, or 
        other behavior that contributes to a culture that is tolerant 
        of, or increases risk for, sexual assault; and
            (2) maltreatment or ostracism of a victim for a report of 
        sexual misconduct.

SEC. 535. INDEPENDENT REVIEWS AND ASSESSMENTS ON RACE AND ETHNICITY IN 
              THE INVESTIGATION, PROSECUTION, AND DEFENSE OF SEXUAL 
              ASSAULT IN THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Reviews and Assessments by DAC-IPAD.--The independent committee 
established by the Secretary of Defense under section 546 of the Carl 
Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3374), commonly 
known as the ``DAC-IPAD'', shall conduct each of the following:
            (1) A review and assessment, by fiscal year, of the race 
        and ethnicity of members of the Armed Forces accused of a 
        penetrative sexual assault offense or contact sexual assault 
        offense in an unrestricted report made pursuant to Department 
        of Defense Instruction 6495.02, including an unrestricted 
        report involving a spouse or intimate partner, in all cases 
        completed in each fiscal year assessed.
            (2) A review and assessment, by fiscal year, of the race 
        and ethnicity of members of the Armed Forces against whom 
        charges were preferred pursuant to Rule for Courts-Martial 307 
        for a penetrative sexual assault offense or contact sexual 
        assault offense in all cases completed in each fiscal year 
        assessed.
            (3) A review and assessment, by fiscal year, of the race 
        and ethnicity of members of the Armed Forces who were convicted 
        of a penetrative sexual assault offense or contact sexual 
        assault offense in all cases completed in each fiscal year 
        assessed.
    (b) Information From Federal Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Upon request by the chair of the 
        committee, a department or agency of the Federal Government 
        shall provide information that the committees considers 
        necessary to conduct reviews and assessments required by 
        subsection (a), including military criminal investigation 
        files, charge sheets, records of trial, and personnel records.
            (2) Handling, storage, and return.--The committee shall 
        handle and store all records received and reviewed under this 
        section in accordance with applicable privacy laws and 
        Department of Defense policy, and shall return all records so 
        received in a timely manner.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the committee shall submit to the Secretary of 
Defense, and to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives, a report setting forth the results of the 
reviews and assessments required by subsection (a). The report shall 
include such recommendations for legislative or administrative action 
as the committee considers appropriate in light of such results.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``case'' means an unrestricted report of any 
        penetrative sexual assault offense or contact sexual assault 
        offense made against a member of the Armed Forces pursuant to 
        Department of Defense Instruction 6495.02, including any 
        unrestricted report involving a spouses or intimate partner for 
        which an investigation has been opened by a criminal 
        investigative organization.
            (2) The term ``completed'', with respect to a case, means 
        that the case was tried to verdict, dismissed without further 
        action, or dismissed and then resolved by non-judicial or 
        administrative proceedings.
            (3) The term ``contact sexual assault offense'' means 
        aggravated sexual contact, abusive sexual contact, wrongful 
        sexual contact, and attempts to commit such offenses under the 
        Uniform Code of Military Justice.
            (4) The term ``penetrative sexual assault offense'' means 
        rape, aggravated sexual assault, sexual assault, forcible 
        sodomy, and attempts to commit such offenses under the Uniform 
        Code of Military Justice.

SEC. 536. REPORT ON MECHANISMS TO ENHANCE THE INTEGRATION AND 
              SYNCHRONIZATION OF ACTIVITIES OF SPECIAL VICTIM 
              INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION PERSONNEL WITH ACTIVITIES 
              OF MILITARY CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE ORGANIZATIONS.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the 
Secretaries of the military departments, submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
setting forth proposals for various mechanisms to enhance the 
integration and synchronization of activities of Special Victim 
Investigation and Prosecution (SVIP) personnel with activities of 
military criminal investigative organizations (MCIOs) in investigations 
in which both such personnel are or may be involved. If the proposed 
mechanisms require legislative or administration action for 
implementation, the report shall set forth such recommendations for 
such action as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.

SEC. 537. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON 
              IMPLEMENTATION BY THE ARMED FORCES OF RECENT STATUTORY 
              REQUIREMENTS ON SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE IN 
              THE MILITARY.

    (a) Report Required.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report, in writing, on a study, conducted by 
the Comptroller General for purposes of the report, on the 
implementation by the Armed Forces of statutory requirements on sexual 
assault prevention and response in the military in the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136) and each 
succeeding national defense authorization Act through the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232).
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A list and citation of each statutory requirement 
        (whether codified or uncodified) on sexual assault prevention 
        and response in the military in each national defense 
        authorization Act specified in paragraph (1), including--
                    (A) whether such statutory requirement is still in 
                force; and
                    (B) if such statutory requirement is no longer in 
                force, the date of the repeal or expiration of such 
                requirement.
            (2) For each statutory requirement listed pursuant to 
        paragraph (1), the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the extent to which such 
                requirement was implemented, or is currently being 
                implemented, as applicable, by each Armed Force to 
                which such requirement applied or applies.
                    (B) A description and assessment of the actions 
                taken by each of the Department of Defense, the 
                military department concerned, and the Armed Force 
                concerned to assess and determine the effectiveness of 
                actions taken pursuant to such requirement in meeting 
                its intended objective.
            (3) Any other matters in connection with the statutory 
        requirements specified in subsection (a), and the 
        implementation of such requirements by the Armed Forces, that 
        the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
    (c) Briefings.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Comptroller General 
shall provide to the committees referred to in subsection (a) one or 
more briefings on the status of the study required by subsection (a), 
including any preliminary findings and recommendations of the 
Comptroller General as a result of the study as of the date of such 
briefing.

               PART II--SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL MATTERS

SEC. 541. LEGAL ASSISTANCE BY SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL FOR VICTIMS OF 
              ALLEGED DOMESTIC VIOLENCE OFFENSES.

    (a) Conditional Expansion of Eligibility to Victims of Alleged 
Domestic Violence Offenses.--Subsection (a) of section 1044e of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph:
    ``(3) Legal counsel designated as described in paragraph (1) may 
also provide legal assistance to any individual described in paragraph 
(2)(B) or (2)(C) who is the victim of an alleged domestic violence 
offense, and to any civilian individual not otherwise covered by 
paragraph (2)(C) who is the victim of an alleged sex-related offense or 
alleged domestic violence offense, if the Secretary of the military 
department concerned determines (on a case-by-case basis) that 
resources are available for the provision of such assistance to such 
individual without impairing the capacity to provide assistance under 
paragraph (1) to victims of alleged sex-related offenses described in 
paragraph (2).''.
    (b) Definitions.--Subsection (g) of such section is amended to read 
as follows:
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `alleged covered offense' means any of the 
        following:
                    ``(A) An alleged sex-related offense.
                    ``(B) An alleged domestic violence offense.
            ``(2) The term `alleged sex-related offense' means any 
        allegation of--
                    ``(A) a violation of section 920, 920b, 920c, or 
                930 of this title (article 120, 120b, 120c, or 130 of 
                the Uniform Code of Military Justice); or
                    ``(B) an attempt to commit an offense specified in 
                a subparagraph (A) as punishable under section 880 of 
                this title (article 80 of the Uniform Code of Military 
                Justice).
            ``(3) The term `alleged domestic violence offense' means 
        any allegation of--
                    ``(A) a violation of section 928, 928b(1), 928b(5), 
                or 930 of this title (article 128, 128b(1), 128b(5), or 
                130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), when 
                committed against a spouse, intimate partner, or 
                immediate family member;
                    ``(B) a violation of any other provision of 
                subchapter X of chapter 47 of this title (the Uniform 
                Code of Military Justice), when committed against a 
                spouse, intimate partner, or immediate family member, 
                as specified by the Secretary concerned for purposes of 
                eligibility for legal consultation and assistance by 
                Special Victims' Counsel under the jurisdiction of such 
                Secretary under this section; or
                    ``(C) an attempt to commit an offense specified in 
                a subparagraph (A) or (B) as punishable under section 
                880 of this title (article 80 of the Uniform Code of 
                Military Justice).''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) in subsections (b) and (f), by striking ``alleged sex-
        related offense'' each place it appears (other than subsection 
        (f)(1)) and inserting ``alleged covered offense concerned''; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) by striking ``subsection (a)(2)'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``paragraph (2) or (3) of 
                subsection (a)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``an alleged sex-
                related offense'' and inserting ``an alleged covered 
                offense''.
    (d) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1044e. Special Victims' Counsel: victims of sex-related 
              offenses; victims of domestic violence offenses''.
            (2) Table of sections.--the table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 53 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 1044e and inserting the following 
        new item:

``1044e. Special Victims' Counsel: victims of sex-related offenses; 
                            victims of domestic violence offenses.''.

SEC. 542. OTHER SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL MATTERS.

    (a) Enhancement of Legal Consultation and Assistance in Connection 
With Potential Victim Benefits.--Paragraph (8)(D) of subsection (b) of 
section 1044e of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``and other'' and inserting ``, section 1408(h) of this title, and 
other''.
    (b) Expansion of Legal Assistance Authorized to Include 
Consultation and Assistance for Retaliation.--Subsection (b) of such 
section is amended further--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (10) as paragraph (11); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following new 
        paragraph (10):
            ``(10) Legal consultation and assistance in connection with 
        an incident of retaliation, whether such incident occurs 
        before, during, or after the conclusion of any criminal 
        proceedings, including--
                    ``(A) in understanding the rights and protections 
                afforded to victims of retaliation;
                    ``(B) in the filing of complaints; and
                    ``(C) in any resulting military justice 
                proceedings.''.
    (c) Codification of Duty to Determine Victim's Preference for 
Prosecution of Alleged Sex-related Offense by Court-martial or Civilian 
Court.--
            (1) In general.--Such section is further amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (d) through (h) as 
                subsections (e) through (i), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (c) the following 
                new subsection (d):
    ``(d) Duty to Determine Victim's Preference for Prosecution of an 
Alleged Sex-related Offense by Court-martial or Civilian Court.--(1) In 
providing legal consultation and representation to a victim under this 
section in connection with an alleged sex-related offense that occurs 
in the United States, a Special Victims' Counsel shall have the duty--
            ``(A) to solicit the victim's preference regarding whether 
        the offense should be prosecuted by court-martial or in a 
        civilian court with jurisdiction over the offense; and
            ``(B) to make the victim's preference, if offered, known to 
        appropriate military prosecutors.
    ``(2) Any consultation by a Special Victims' Counsel pursuant to 
paragraph (1) shall occur in accordance with the process for such 
consultation established pursuant to section 534(b) of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (10 U.S.C. 1044e note) or such other process as the 
Secretary of Defense shall establish for that purpose.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Paragraph (11) of subsection (b) 
        of such section, as redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this 
        section, is amended by striking ``subsection (h)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (i)''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (e) Report on Expansion of Eligibility for SVC Services for Victims 
of Alleged Domestic Violence Offenses and Related Matters.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives a report setting forth a 
        description and assessment of the manner in which the 
        Department of Defense would implement amendments to section 
        1044e of title 10, United States Code, that would provide for 
        the following:
                    (A) An expansion of eligibility for Special 
                Victims' Counsel services for victims of alleged 
                domestic violence offenses.
                    (B) An expansion of eligibility for Special 
                Victim's Counsel services to any civilians who are the 
                victim of an alleged sex-related offense or an alleged 
                domestic violence offense, in cases in which the 
                Secretary concerned waives the condition in section 
                1044(a)(7) of title 10, United States Code, for 
                purposes of such eligibility.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include a comprehensive description of the additional personnel 
        (including the specific number of additional billets), 
        resources, and training required to implement the amendments 
        described in that paragraph such that such amendments are fully 
        implemented by not later than September 30, 2025.
            (3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) The term ``alleged sex-related offense'' has 
                the meaning given that term in section 1044e(g) of 
                title 10, United States Code.
                    (B) The term ``alleged domestic violence offense'' 
                means any allegation of--
                            (i) a violation of section 928(b), 928b(1), 
                        928b(5), or 930 of title 10, United States Code 
                        (article 128(b), 128b(1), 128b(5), or 130 of 
                        the Uniform Code of Military Justice), when 
                        committed against a spouse, intimate partner, 
                        or immediate family member;
                            (ii) a violation of any other provision of 
                        subchapter X of chapter 47 of such title (the 
                        Uniform Code of Military Justice), when 
                        committed against a spouse, intimate partner, 
                        or immediate family member, if specified by any 
                        Secretary concerned for purposes of eligibility 
                        for legal consultation and assistance by 
                        Special Victims' Counsel under the amendments 
                        described in paragraph (1); and
                            (iii) an attempt to commit an offense 
                        specified in clause (i) or (ii) as punishable 
                        under section 880 of such title (article 80 of 
                        the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
                    (C) The term ``Secretary concerned'' has the 
                meaning given that term in section 101(a)(9) of title 
                10, United States Code.

SEC. 543. AVAILABILITY OF SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL AT MILITARY 
              INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) Deadline for Availability.--If a Special Victims' Counsel is 
not available at a military installation for access by a member of the 
Armed Forces who requests access to such a Counsel, such a Counsel 
shall be made available at such installation for access by such member 
by not later than 72 hours after such request.
    (b) Report on Civilian Support of SVCs.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, each Secretary of a 
military department shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the 
assessment of such Secretary of the feasibility and advisability of 
establishing and maintaining for each Special Victims' Counsel under 
the jurisdiction of such Secretary one or more civilian positions for 
the purpose of--
            (1) providing support to such Special Victims' Counsel; and
            (2) ensuring continuity and the preservation of 
        institutional knowledge in transitions between the service of 
        individuals as such Special Victims' Counsel.

SEC. 544. TRAINING FOR SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL ON CIVILIAN CRIMINAL 
              JUSTICE MATTERS IN THE STATES OF THE MILITARY 
              INSTALLATIONS TO WHICH ASSIGNED.

    (a) Training.--Upon the assignment of a Special Victims' Counsel 
(including a Victim Legal Counsel of the Navy) to a military 
installation in the United States, such Counsel shall be provided 
appropriate training on the law and policies of the State or States in 
which such military installation is located with respect to the 
criminal justice matters specified in subsection (b).
    (b) Criminal Justice Matters.--The criminal justice matters 
specified in this subsection, with respect to a State, are the 
following:
            (1) Victim rights.
            (2) Protective orders.
            (3) Prosecution of criminal offenses.
            (4) Sentencing for conviction of criminal offenses.

   PART III--BOARDS FOR CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS AND DISCHARGE 
                          REVIEW BOARD MATTERS

SEC. 546. REPEAL OF 15-YEAR STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS ON MOTIONS OR 
              REQUESTS FOR REVIEW OF DISCHARGE OR DISMISSAL FROM THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 1553(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by striking the second sentence.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2020.

SEC. 547. REDUCTION IN REQUIRED NUMBER OF MEMBERS OF DISCHARGE REVIEW 
              BOARDS.

    Section 1553(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``five'' and inserting ``not fewer than three''.

SEC. 548. ENHANCEMENT OF PERSONNEL ON BOARDS FOR THE CORRECTION OF 
              MILITARY RECORDS AND DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARDS.

    (a) Boards for the Correction of Military Records.--Section 1552 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (g), by inserting ``, or a social worker 
        with training on mental health issues connected with post-
        traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury or other 
        trauma,'' after ``psychiatrist''; and
            (2) in subsection (h)(2)(A), by inserting ``(including a 
        social worker with training on mental health issues connected 
        with post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury 
        or other trauma)'' after ``a civilian health care provider''.
    (b) Discharge Review Boards.--Section 1553 of such title is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(1), by inserting ``, or a social 
        worker with training on mental health issues connected with 
        post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury or 
        other trauma,'' after ``psychiatrist'' both places it appears; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (e), by inserting ``a social worker with 
        training on mental health issues connected with post-traumatic 
        stress disorder or traumatic brain injury or other trauma,'' 
        after ``or psychiatrist,''.

SEC. 549. INCLUSION OF INTIMATE PARTNER VIOLENCE AND SPOUSAL ABUSE 
              AMONG SUPPORTING RATIONALES FOR CERTAIN CLAIMS FOR 
              CORRECTIONS OF MILITARY RECORDS AND DISCHARGE REVIEW.

    (a) Correction of Military Records.--Section 1552(h)(1) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``or military sexual 
trauma'' and inserting ``, sexual trauma, intimate partner violence, or 
spousal abuse''.
    (b) Discharge Review.--Section 1553(d)(3)(B) of such title is 
amended by striking ``or military sexual trauma'' and inserting ``, 
sexual trauma, intimate partner violence, or spousal abuse''.

SEC. 550. ADVICE AND COUNSEL OF TRAUMA EXPERTS IN REVIEW BY BOARDS FOR 
              CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS AND DISCHARGE REVIEW 
              BOARDS OF CERTAIN CLAIMS.

    (a) Boards for Correction of Military Records.--Section 1552(g) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(g)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) If a board established under subsection (a)(1) is reviewing a 
claim described in subsection (h), the board shall seek advice and 
counsel in the review from a psychiatrist, psychologist, or social 
worker with training on mental health issues associated with post-
traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury or other trauma as 
specified in the current edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical 
Manual of Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric 
Association.
    ``(3) If a board established under subsection (a)(1) is reviewing a 
claim in which sexual trauma, intimate partner violence, or spousal 
abuse is claimed, the board shall seek advice and counsel in the review 
from an expert in trauma specific to sexual assault, intimate partner 
violence, or spousal abuse, as applicable.''.
    (b) Discharge Review Boards.--Section 1553(d)(1) of such title is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(1)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph;
    ``(B) In the case of a former member described in paragraph (3)(B) 
who claims that the former member's post-traumatic stress disorder or 
traumatic brain injury as described in that paragraph in based in whole 
or in part on sexual trauma, intimate partner violence, or spousal 
abuse, a board established under this section to review the former 
member's discharge or dismissal shall seek advice and counsel in the 
review from a psychiatrist, psychologist, or social worker with 
training on mental health issues associated with post-traumatic stress 
disorder or traumatic brain injury or other trauma as specified in the 
current edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders published by the American Psychiatric Association.''.

SEC. 551. TRAINING OF MEMBERS OF BOARDS FOR CORRECTION OF MILITARY 
              RECORDS AND DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARDS ON SEXUAL TRAUMA, 
              INTIMATE PARTNER VIOLENCE, SPOUSAL ABUSE, AND RELATED 
              MATTERS.

    (a) Boards for Correction of Military Records.--The curriculum of 
training for members of boards for the correction of military records 
under section 534(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. 1552 note) shall include training on each 
of the following:
            (1) Sexual trauma.
            (2) Intimate partner violence.
            (3) Spousal abuse.
            (4) The various responses of individuals to trauma.
    (b) Discharge Review Boards.--
            (1) In general.--Each Secretary concerned shall develop and 
        provide training for members of discharge review boards under 
        section 1553 of title 10, United States Code, that are under 
        the jurisdiction of such Secretary on each of the following:
                    (A) Sexual trauma.
                    (B) Intimate partner violence.
                    (C) Spousal abuse.
                    (D) The various responses of individuals to trauma.
            (2) Uniformity of training.--The Secretary of Defense and 
        the Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly ensure that 
        the training developed and provided pursuant to this subsection 
        is, to the extent practicable, uniform.
            (3) Secretary concerned defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 552. LIMITATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH SEPARATIONS 
              FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO SUFFER FROM MENTAL 
              HEALTH CONDITIONS IN CONNECTION WITH A SEX-RELATED, 
              INTIMATE PARTNER VIOLENCE-RELATED, OR SPOUSAL-ABUSE 
              OFFENSE.

    (a) Confirmation of Diagnosis of Condition Required Before 
Separation.--Before a member of the Armed Forces who was the victim of 
a sex-related offense, an intimate partner violence-related offense, or 
a spousal-abuse offense during service in the Armed Forces (whether or 
not such offense was committed by another member of the Armed Forces), 
and who has a mental health condition not amounting to a physical 
disability, is separated, discharged, or released from the Armed Forces 
based solely on such condition, the diagnosis of such condition must 
be--
            (1) corroborated by a competent mental health care 
        professional at the peer level or a higher level of the health 
        care professional making the diagnosis; and
            (2) endorsed by the Surgeon General of the military 
        department concerned.
    (b) Narrative Reason for Separation if Mental Health Condition 
Present.--If the narrative reason for discharge, separation, or release 
from the Armed Forces of a member of the Armed Forces is a mental 
health condition that is not a disability, the appropriate narrative 
reason for the discharge, separation, or release shall be condition, 
not a disability, or Secretarial authority.
    (c) Definition.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``intimate partner violence-related offense'' 
        means the following:
                    (A) An offense under section 928 or 930 of title 
                10, United States Code (article 128 or 130 of the 
                Uniform Code of Military Justice).
                    (B) An offense under State law for conduct 
                identical or substantially similar to an offense 
                described in subparagraph (A).
            (2) The term ``sex-related offense'' means the following:
                    (A) An offense under section 920 or 920b of title 
                10, United States Code (article 120 or 120b of the 
                Uniform Code of Military Justice).
                    (B) An offense under State law for conduct 
                identical or substantially similar to an offense 
                described in subparagraph (A).
            (3) The term ``spousal-abuse offense'' means the following:
                    (A) An offense under section 928 of title 10, 
                United States Code (article 128 of the Uniform Code of 
                Military Justice).
                    (B) An offense under State law for conduct 
                identical or substantially similar to an offense 
                described in subparagraph (A).
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to 
separations, discharges, and releases from the Armed Forces that occur 
on or after that effective date.

SEC. 553. LIBERAL CONSIDERATION OF EVIDENCE IN CERTAIN CLAIMS BY BOARDS 
              FOR THE CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS AND DISCHARGE 
              REVIEW BOARDS.

    (a) Boards for the Correction of Military Records.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1552(h) of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (1);
                    (B) by striking ``(2) In the case of a claimant 
                described in paragraph (1), a board'' and inserting ``A 
                board'';
                    (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
                paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively;
                    (D) in paragraph (1), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (C), by inserting ``all evidence presented 
                by the claimant, including lay evidence and information 
                and'' after ``review''; and
                    (E) by striking paragraph (2), as so redesignated, 
                and inserting the following new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) if a claim alleges error or injustice in the 
        claimant's discharge or dismissal, or the characterization of 
        such discharge or dismissal, review such claim with liberal 
        consideration of all evidence and information submitted by, or 
        pertaining to, the claimant.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
        shall apply with respect to claims submitted to boards for the 
        correction of military records under section 1552 of title 10, 
        United States Code, on or after that date.
    (b) Discharge Review Boards.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1553 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(c)''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        paragraph:
    ``(2) A board established under this section shall--
            ``(A) review all evidence and information provided by the 
        former member, including lay evidence and information and 
        medical evidence of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or a 
        civilian health care provider that is provided by the former 
        member; and
            ``(B) review the claim with liberal consideration of all 
        evidence and information submitted by, or pertaining to, the 
        former member.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d), by striking paragraph (3).
            (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
        shall apply with respect to motions or requests for review 
        submitted to discharge review boards under section 1553 of 
        title 10, United States Code, on or after that date.

                PART IV--OTHER MILITARY JUSTICE MATTERS

SEC. 555. EXPANSION OF PRE-REFERRAL MATTERS REVIEWABLE BY MILITARY 
              JUDGES AND MILITARY MAGISTRATES IN THE INTEREST OF 
              EFFICIENCY IN MILITARY JUSTICE.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 830a of title 10, United 
States Code (article 30a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
amended by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the following 
new paragraphs:
    ``(1) The President shall prescribe regulations for matters 
relating to proceedings conducted before referral of charges and 
specifications to court-martial for trial, including the following:
            ``(A) Pre-referral investigative subpoenas.
            ``(B) Pre-referral warrants or orders for electronic 
        communications.
            ``(C) Pre-referral matters referred by an appellate court.
            ``(D) Pre-referral matters under subsection (c) or (e) of 
        section 806b of this title (article 6b).
            ``(E) Pre-referral matters relating to the following:
                    ``(i) Pre-trial confinement of an accused.
                    ``(ii) The mental capacity or responsibility of an 
                accused.
                    ``(iii) A request for an individual military 
                counsel.
    ``(2) In addition to the matters specified in paragraph (1), the 
regulations prescribed under that paragraph shall--
            ``(A) set forth the matters that a military judge may rule 
        upon in such proceedings;
            ``(B) include procedures for the review of such rulings;
            ``(C) include appropriate limitations to ensure that 
        proceedings under this section extend only to matters that 
        would be subject to consideration by a military judge in a 
        general or special court-martial;
            ``(D) provide such limitations on the relief that may be 
        ordered under this section as the President considers 
        appropriate; and
            ``(E) provide for treatment of such other pre-referral 
        matters as the President may prescribe.''.
    (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 830a. Art 30a. Proceedings conducted before referral''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter VI of chapter 47 of title 10, United 
        States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended 
        by striking the item relating to section 830a (article 30a) and 
        inserting the following new item:

``830a. 30a. Proceedings conducted before referral.''.

SEC. 556. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ON REGISTRATION AT MILITARY 
              INSTALLATIONS OF CIVILIAN PROTECTIVE ORDERS APPLICABLE TO 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ASSIGNED TO SUCH 
              INSTALLATIONS AND CERTAIN OTHER INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) Policies and Procedures Required.--Not later than one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
departments, establish policies and procedures for the registration at 
military installations of any civilian protective orders described in 
subsection (b), including the duties and responsibilities of commanders 
of installations in the registration process.
    (b) Civilian Protective Orders.--A civilian protective order 
described in this subsection is any civilian protective order as 
follows:
            (1) A civilian protective order against a member of the 
        Armed Forces assigned to the installation concerned.
            (2) A civilian protective order against a civilian employee 
        employed at the installation concerned.
            (3) A civilian protective order against the civilian spouse 
        or intimate partner of a member of the Armed Forces on active 
        duty and assigned to the installation concerned, or of a 
        civilian employee described in paragraph (2), which order 
        provides for the protection of such member or employee.
    (c) Particular Elements.--The policies and procedures required by 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
            (1) A requirement for notice between and among the 
        commander, military law enforcement elements, and military 
        criminal investigative elements of an installation when a 
        member of the Armed Forces assigned to such installation, a 
        civilian employee employed at such installation, a civilian 
        spouse or intimate partner of a member assigned to such 
        installation, or a civilian spouse or intimate partner of a 
        civilian employee employed at such installation becomes subject 
        to a civilian protective order.
            (2) A statement of policy that failure to register a 
        civilian protective order may not be a justification for the 
        lack of enforcement of such order by military law enforcement 
        and other applicable personnel who have knowledge of such 
        order.
    (d) Letter.--As soon as practicable after establishing the policies 
and procedures required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit 
to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a letter that includes the following:
            (1) A detailed description of the policies and procedures.
            (2) A certification by the Secretary that the policies and 
        procedures have been implemented on each military installation.

SEC. 557. INCREASE IN NUMBER OF DIGITAL FORENSIC EXAMINERS FOR THE 
              MILITARY CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Each Secretary of a military department shall take 
appropriate actions to increase the number of digital forensic 
examiners in each military criminal investigative organization (MCIO) 
under the jurisdiction of such Secretary by not fewer than 10 from the 
authorized number of such examiners for such organization as of 
September 30, 2019.
    (b) Military Criminal Investigative Organizations.--For purposes of 
this section, the military criminal investigative organizations are the 
following:
            (1) The Army Criminal Investigation Command.
            (2) The Naval Criminal Investigative Service.
            (3) The Air Force Office of Special Investigations.
            (4) The Marine Corps Criminal Investigation Division.
    (c) Funding.--Funds for additional digital forensic examiners as 
required by subsection (a) for fiscal year 2020, including for 
compensation, initial training, and equipment, shall be derived from 
amounts authorized to be appropriated for that fiscal year for the 
Armed Force concerned for operation and maintenance.

SEC. 558. SURVEY OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ON THEIR EXPERIENCES 
              WITH MILITARY INVESTIGATIONS AND MILITARY JUSTICE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 23 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 481a the following new section:
``Sec. 481b. Military investigation and justice experiences: survey of 
              members of the armed forces
    ``(a) Surveys Required.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall conduct 
from time to time a survey on the experiences of members of the armed 
forces with military investigations and military justice in accordance 
with this section and guidance issued by the Secretary for purposes of 
this section.
    ``(2) The survey under this section shall be known as the `Military 
Investigation and Justice Experience Survey'.
    ``(b) Matters Covered by Survey.--The guidance issued by the 
Secretary under this section on the survey shall include specification 
of the following:
            ``(1) The individuals to be surveyed, including any member 
        of the armed forces serving on active duty who is a victim of 
        an alleged sex-related offense and who made an unrestricted 
        report of that offense.
            ``(2) The matters to be covered in the survey, including--
                    ``(A) the experience of the individuals surveyed 
                with the military criminal investigative organization 
                that investigated the alleged offense, and with the 
                Special Victims' Counsel in the case of a member who 
                was the victim of an alleged sex-related offense; and
                    ``(B) if the individual's report resulted in a 
                charge or charges that were referred to a court-
                martial, the experience of the individual with the 
                prosecutor and the court-martial in general.
            ``(3) The timing of the administration of the survey, 
        including when the investigation or case is closed or otherwise 
        complete.
    ``(c) Frequency of Survey.--The survey required by this section 
shall be conducted at least once every four years, but not more 
frequently than once every two years.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Alleged sex-related offense.--The term `alleged sex-
        related offense' has the meaning provided in section 1044e(g) 
        of this title.
            ``(2) Unrestricted report.--The term `unrestricted report' 
        means a report that is not a restricted report.
            ``(3) Restricted report.--The term `restricted report' 
        means a report concerning a sexual assault that is treated as a 
        restricted report under section 1565b(b) of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 23 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 481a the following new item:

``481b. Military investigation and justice experiences: survey of 
                            members of the armed forces.''.

SEC. 559. PUBLIC ACCESS TO DOCKETS, FILINGS, AND COURT RECORDS OF 
              COURTS-MARTIAL OR OTHER RECORDS OF TRIAL OF THE MILITARY 
              JUSTICE SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Section 940a of title 10, United States Code 
(article 140a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense'' and inserting 
        ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Homeland Security,'';
            (2) in subsection (a), as designated by paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``(including with respect to the Coast 
                Guard)'' after ``military justice system''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``public'' 
                before ``access to docket information''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(b) Inapplicability of Privacy Act.--Section 552a of title 5 
shall not apply to records of trial produced or distributed within the 
military justice system or docket information, filings, and records 
made publicly accessible in accordance with the uniform standards and 
criteria for conduct established by the Secretary under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Protection of Certain Personally Identifiable Information.--
Records of trial, docket information, filings, and other records made 
publicly accessible in accordance with the uniform standards and 
criteria for conduct established by the Secretary under subsection (a) 
shall restrict access to personally identifiable information of minors 
and victims of crime (including victims of sexual assault and domestic 
violence), as practicable to the extent such information is restricted 
in electronic filing systems of Federal and State courts.
    ``(d) Inapplicability to Certain Dockets and Records.--Nothing in 
this section shall be construed to provide public access to docket 
information, filings, or records that are classified, subject to a 
judicial protective order, or ordered sealed.''.
    (b) Existing Standards and Criteria.--The Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall apply to the Coast Guard the standards and criteria for 
conduct established by the Secretary of Defense under section 940a of 
title 10, United States Code (article 140a of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), as in effect on the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act, until such time as the Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, prescribes 
revised standards and criteria for conduct under such section that 
implement the amendments made by subsection (a) of this section.

SEC. 560. PILOT PROGRAMS ON DEFENSE INVESTIGATORS IN THE MILITARY 
              JUSTICE SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Each Secretary of a military department shall 
carry out a pilot program on defense investigators within the military 
justice system under the jurisdiction of such Secretary in order to do 
the following:
            (1) Determine whether the presence of defense investigators 
        within such military justice system will--
                    (A) make such military justice system more 
                effective in determining the truth; and
                    (B) make such military justice system more fair and 
                efficient.
            (2) Otherwise assess the feasibility and advisability of 
        defense investigators as an element of such military justice 
        system.
    (b) Elements.--
            (1) Model of similar civilian criminal justice systems.--
        Defense investigators under each pilot program under subsection 
        (a) shall consist of personnel, and participate in the military 
        justice system concerned, in a manner similar to that of 
        defense investigators in civilian criminal justice systems that 
        are similar to the military justice systems of the military 
        departments.
            (2) Interview of victim.--A defense investigator may 
        question a victim under a pilot program only upon a request 
        made through the Special Victims' Counsel or other counsel of 
        the victim, or trial counsel if the victim does not have such 
        counsel.
            (3) Uniformity across military justice systems.--The 
        Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the personnel and 
        activities of defense investigators under the pilot programs 
        are, to the extent practicable, uniform across the military 
        justice systems of the military departments.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than three years after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, 
        in consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
        departments, submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
        Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the pilot 
        programs under subsection (a).
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of each pilot program, including 
                the personnel and activities of defense investigators 
                under such pilot program.
                    (B) An assessment of the feasibility and 
                advisability of establishing and maintaining defense 
                investigators as an element of the military justice 
                systems of the military departments.
                    (C) If the assessment under subparagraph (B) is 
                that the establishment and maintenance of defense 
                investigators as an element of the military justice 
                systems of the military departments is feasible and 
                advisable, such recommendations for legislative and 
                administrative action as the Secretary of Defense 
                considers appropriate to establish and maintain defense 
                investigators as an element of the military justice 
                systems.
                    (D) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense 
                considers appropriate.

SEC. 561. REPORT ON MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM INVOLVING ALTERNATIVE 
              AUTHORITY FOR DETERMINING WHETHER TO PREFER OR REFER 
              CHANGES FOR FELONY OFFENSES UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE OF 
              MILITARY JUSTICE.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 300 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives a report setting forth the results 
        of a study, conducted for purposes of the report, on the 
        feasibility and advisability of an alternative military justice 
        system in which determinations as to whether to prefer or refer 
        charges for trial by court-martial for any offense specified in 
        paragraph (2) is made by a judge advocate in grade O-6 or 
        higher who has significant experience in criminal litigation 
        and is outside of the chain of command of the member subject to 
        the charges rather than by a commanding officer of the member 
        who is in the chain of command of the member.
            (2) Specified offense.--An offense specified in this 
        paragraph is any offense under chapter 47 of title 10, United 
        States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), for which 
        the maximum punishment authorized includes confinement for more 
        than one year.
    (b) Elements.--The study required for purposes of the report under 
subsection (a) shall address the following:
            (1) Relevant procedural, legal, and policy implications and 
        considerations of the alternative military justice system 
        described in subsection (a).
            (2) An analysis of the following in connection with the 
        implementation and maintenance of the alternative military 
        justice system:
                    (A) Legal personnel requirements.
                    (B) Changes in force structure.
                    (C) Amendments to law.
                    (D) Impacts on the timeliness and efficiency of 
                legal processes and court-martial adjudications.
                    (E) Potential legal challenges to the system.
                    (F) Potential changes in prosecution and conviction 
                rates.
                    (G) Potential impacts on the preservation of good 
                order and discipline, including the ability of a 
                commander to carry out nonjudicial punishment and other 
                administrative actions.
                    (H) Such other considerations as the Secretary 
                considers appropriate.
            (3) A comparative analysis of the military justice systems 
        of relevant foreign allies with the current military justice 
        system of the United States and the alternative military 
        justice system, including whether or not approaches of the 
        military justice systems of such allies to determinations 
        described in subsection (a) are appropriate for the military 
        justice system of the United States.
            (4) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
        conducting a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
        advisability of the alternative military justice system, and, 
        if the pilot program is determined to be feasible and 
        advisable--
                    (A) an analysis of potential legal issues in 
                connection with the pilot program, including potential 
                issues for appeals; and
                    (B) recommendations on the following:
                            (i) The populations to be subject to the 
                        pilot program.
                            (ii) The duration of the pilot program.
                            (iii) Metrics to measure the effectiveness 
                        of the pilot program.
                            (iv) The resources to be used to conduct 
                        the pilot program.

SEC. 562. REPORT ON STANDARDIZATION AMONG THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS IN 
              COLLECTION AND PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION ON MATTERS 
              WITHIN THE MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the 
Secretaries of the military departments, submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
setting forth the following:
            (1) A plan for actions to provide for standardization, to 
        the extent practicable, among the military departments in the 
        collection and presentation of information on matters within 
        their military justice systems, including information collected 
        and maintained for purposes of section 940a of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 140a of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), and such other information as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
            (2) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
        establishing and maintaining a single, Department of Defense-
        wide data management system for the standardized collection and 
        presentation of information described in paragraph (1).

SEC. 563. REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT OF GUARDIAN AD LITEM PROGRAM FOR 
              CERTAIN MILITARY DEPENDENTS WHO ARE A VICTIM OR WITNESS 
              OF OFFENSES UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE 
              INVOLVING ABUSE OR EXPLOITATION.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives a report setting forth an 
        assessment of the feasibility and advisability of establishing 
        a guardian ad litem program for military dependents described 
        in paragraph (2) who are a victim or witness of an offense 
        under chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform 
        Code of Military Justice), that involves an element of abuse or 
        exploitation in order to protect the best interests of such 
        dependents in a court-martial of such offense.
            (2) Covered dependents.--The military dependents described 
        in this paragraph are as follows:
                    (A) Military dependents under 12 years of age.
                    (B) Military dependents who lack mental or other 
                capacity.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
        establishing a guardian ad litem program as described in 
        subsection (a).
            (2) If establishment of the guardian ad litem program is 
        considered feasible and advisable, the following:
                    (A) A description of administrative requirements in 
                connection with the program, including the following:
                            (i) Any memoranda of understanding between 
                        the Department of Defense and State and local 
                        authorities required for purposes of the 
                        program.
                            (ii) The personnel, funding, and other 
                        resources required for purposes of the program.
                    (B) Best practices for the program (as determined 
                in consultation with appropriate civilian experts on 
                child advocacy).
                    (C) Such recommendations for legislative and 
                administration action to implement the program as the 
                Secretary considers appropriate.

   Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Transition, and Resilience

SEC. 566. CONSECUTIVE SERVICE OF SERVICE OBLIGATION IN CONNECTION WITH 
              PAYMENT OF TUITION FOR OFF-DUTY TRAINING OR EDUCATION FOR 
              COMMISSIONED OFFICERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WITH ANY OTHER 
              SERVICE OBLIGATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2007(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) Any active duty service obligation of a commissioned officer 
under this subsection shall be served consecutively with any other 
service obligation of the officer (whether active duty or otherwise) 
under any other provision of law.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to agreements for the payment of tuition for off-duty training 
or education that are entered into on or after that date.

SEC. 567. AUTHORITY FOR DETAIL OF CERTAIN ENLISTED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES AS STUDENTS AT LAW SCHOOLS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2004 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and enlisted members'' after 
                ``commissioned officers'';
                    (B) by striking ``bachelor of laws or''; and
                    (C) by inserting ``and enlisted members'' after 
                ``twenty-five officers'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``or enlisted member'' after ``officer'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
                following new paragraph (1):
            ``(1) either--
                    ``(A) have served on active duty for a period of 
                not less than two years nor more than six years and be 
                an officer in the pay grade O-3 or below as of the time 
                the training is to begin; or
                    ``(B) have served on active duty for a period of 
                not less than four years nor more than eight years and 
                be an enlisted member in the pay grade E-5, E-6, or E-7 
                as of the time the training is to begin;'';
                    (C) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (3);
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (1), as amended by 
                subparagraph (B), the following new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) in the case of an enlisted member, meet all 
        requirements for acceptance of a commission as a commissioned 
        officer in the armed forces; and''; and
                    (E) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3), as 
                redesignated by subparagraph (C) of this paragraph, by 
                striking ``or law specialist'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by inserting ``and 
                enlisted members'' after ``Officers''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by inserting ``or 
                enlisted member'' after ``officer'' each place it 
                appears;
            (4) in subsection (d), by inserting ``and enlistment 
        members'' after ``officers'';
            (5) in subsection (e), by inserting ``or enlistment 
        member'' after ``officer''; and
            (6) in subsection (f), by inserting ``or enlisted member'' 
        after ``officer''.
    (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2004. Detail as students at law schools; commissioned officers; 
              certain enlisted members''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 101 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 2004 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``2004. Detail as students at law schools; commissioned officers; 
                            certain enlisted members.''.

SEC. 568. CONNECTIONS OF MEMBERS RETIRING OR SEPARATING FROM THE ARMED 
              FORCES WITH COMMUNITY-BASED ORGANIZATIONS AND RELATED 
              ENTITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall jointly seek to enter into memoranda of 
understanding (MOUs) or other agreements with State veterans agencies 
under which information from Department of Defense Form DD-2648 on 
individuals undergoing retirement, discharge, or release from the Armed 
Forces is transmitted to one or more State veterans agencies, as 
elected by such individuals, to provide or connect veterans to benefits 
or services as follows:
            (1) Assistance in preparation of resumes.
            (2) Training for employment interviews.
            (3) Employment recruitment training.
            (4) Other services leading directly to a successful 
        transition from military life to civilian life.
            (5) Healthcare, including care for mental health.
            (6) Transportation or transportation-related services.
            (7) Housing.
            (8) Such other benefits or services as the Secretaries 
        jointly consider appropriate for purposes of this section.
    (b) Information Transmitted.--The information transmitted on 
individuals as described in subsection (a) shall be such information on 
Form DD-2648 as the Secretaries jointly consider appropriate to 
facilitate community-based organizations and related entities in 
providing or connecting such individuals to benefits and services as 
described in subsection (a).
    (c) Modification of Form DD-2648.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
make such modifications to Form DD-2648 as the Secretary considers 
appropriate to allow an individual filling out the form to indicate an 
email address at which the individual may be contacted to receive or be 
connected to benefits or services described in subsection (a).
    (d) Voluntary Participation.--Information on an individual may be 
transmitted to and through a State veterans agency as described in 
subsection (a) only with the consent of the individual. In giving such 
consent, an individual shall specify the following:
            (1) The State veterans agency or agencies elected by the 
        individual to transmit such information as described in 
        subsection (a).
            (2) The benefits and services for which contact information 
        shall be so transmitted.
            (3) Such other information on the individual as the 
        individual considers appropriate in connection with the 
        transmittal.

Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

             PART I--DEFENSE DEPENDENTS' EDUCATION MATTERS

SEC. 571. CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITY TO ASSIST LOCAL EDUCATIONAL 
              AGENCIES THAT BENEFIT DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.

    (a) Assistance to Schools With Significant Numbers of Military 
Dependent Students.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2020 by section 301 and available for operation and 
maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
table in section 4301, $40,000,000 shall be available only for the 
purpose of providing assistance to local educational agencies under 
subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 20 U.S.C. 7703b).
    (b) Local Educational Agency Defined.--In this section, the term 
``local educational agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 
7013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7713(9)).

SEC. 572. IMPACT AID FOR CHILDREN WITH SEVERE DISABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2020 pursuant to section 301 and available for operation 
and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
table in section 4301, $10,000,000 shall be available for payments 
under section 363 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 
114 Stat. 1654A-77; 20 U.S.C. 7703a).
    (b) Use of Certain Amount.--Of the amount available under 
subsection (a) for payments as described in that subsection, $5,000,000 
shall be available for such payments to local educational agencies 
determined by the Secretary of Defense, in the discretion of the 
Secretary, to have higher concentrations of military children with 
severe disabilities.

SEC. 573. RI'KATAK GUEST STUDENT PROGRAM AT UNITED STATES ARMY 
              GARRISON-KWAJALEIN ATOLL.

    (a) Program Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may conduct an 
assistance program to educate up to five local national students per 
grade, per academic year, on a space-available basis at the contractor-
operated schools on United States Army GarrisonUKwajalein Atoll. The 
program shall be known as the ``Ri'katak Guest Student Program''.
    (b) Student Assistance.--Assistance that may be provided to 
students participating in the program carried out pursuant to 
subsection (a) includes the following:
            (1) Classroom instruction.
            (2) Extracurricular activities.
            (3) Student meals.
            (4) Transportation.

               PART II--MILITARY FAMILY READINESS MATTERS

SEC. 576. TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT FOR STATE 
              LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION COSTS OF SPOUSES OF MEMBERS 
              OF THE ARMED FORCES ARISING FROM RELOCATION TO ANOTHER 
              STATE.

    Section 476(p)(4) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2022'' and inserting ``December 31, 2024''.

SEC. 577. IMPROVEMENT OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE PORTABILITY FOR MILITARY 
              SPOUSES THROUGH INTERSTATE COMPACTS.

    Section 1784 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Improvement of Occupational License Portability Through 
Interstate Compacts.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to 
        enter into a cooperative agreement with the Council of State 
        Governments to assist with funding of the development of 
        interstate compacts on licensed occupations in order to 
        alleviate the burden associated with relicensing in such an 
        occupation by spouse of a member of the armed forces in 
        connection with a permanent change of duty station of members 
        to another State.
            ``(2) Limitation on assistance per compact.--The amount 
        provided under paragraph (1) as assistance for the development 
        of any particular interstate compact may not exceed $1,000,000.
            ``(3) Limitation on total amount of assistance.--The total 
        amount of assistance provided under paragraph (1) in any fiscal 
        year may not exceed $4,000,000.
            ``(4) Annual report.--Not later than February 28 each year, 
        the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
        of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on 
        interstate compacts described in paragraph (1) developed 
        through assistance provided under that paragraph. Each report 
        shall set forth the following:
                    ``(A) Any interstate compact developed during the 
                preceding calendar year, including the occupational 
                licenses covered by such compact and the States 
                agreeing to enter into such compact.
                    ``(B) Any interstate compact developed during a 
                prior calendar year into which one or more additional 
                States agreed to enter during the preceding calendar 
                year.
            ``(5) Expiration.--The authority to enter into a 
        cooperative agreement under paragraph (1), and to provide 
        assistance described in that paragraph pursuant to such 
        cooperative agreement, shall expire on September 30, 2024.''.

SEC. 578. MODIFICATION OF RESPONSIBILITY OF THE OFFICE OF SPECIAL NEEDS 
              FOR INDIVIDUALIZED SERVICE PLANS FOR MEMBERS OF MILITARY 
              FAMILIES WITH SPECIAL NEEDS.

    Subparagraph (F) of section 1781c(d)(4) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows:
            ``(F) Requirements regarding the development of an 
        individualized services plan for each military family member 
        with special needs when requested in connection with the 
        completion of a family needs assessment for the military family 
        concerned.''.

SEC. 579. CLARIFYING TECHNICAL AMENDMENT ON DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR 
              THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR CHILDCARE SERVICES 
              PROVIDERS FOR DEPARTMENT CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.

    Section 559(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1406; 10 U.S.C. 1792 note) is 
amended by inserting ``(including family childcare coordinator services 
and school age childcare coordinator services)'' after ``childcare 
services''.

SEC. 580. PILOT PROGRAM ON INFORMATION SHARING BETWEEN DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE AND DESIGNATED RELATIVES AND FRIENDS OF MEMBERS 
              OF THE ARMED FORCES REGARDING THE EXPERIENCES AND 
              CHALLENGES OF MILITARY SERVICE.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek 
        to enter into an agreement with the American Red Cross to carry 
        out a pilot program under which the American Red Cross--
                    (A) encourages a member of the Armed Forces, upon 
                the enlistment or appointment of such member, to 
                designate up to 10 persons to whom information 
                regarding the military service of such member shall be 
                disseminated using contact information obtained under 
                paragraph (6); and
                    (B) provides such persons, within 30 days after the 
                date on which such persons are designated under 
                subparagraph (A), the option to elect to receive such 
                information regarding military service.
            (2) Dissemination.--The Secretary shall disseminate 
        information described in paragraph (1)(A) under the pilot 
        program on a regular basis.
            (3) Types of information.--The types of information to be 
        disseminated under the pilot program to persons who elect to 
        receive such information shall include information regarding--
                    (A) aspects of daily life and routine experienced 
                by members of the Armed Forces;
                    (B) the challenges and stresses of military 
                service, particularly during and after deployment as 
                part of a contingency operation;
                    (C) the services available to members of the Armed 
                Forces and the dependents of such members to cope with 
                the experiences and challenges of military service;
                    (D) benefits administered by the Department of 
                Defense for members of the Armed Forces and the 
                dependents of such members;
                    (E) a toll-free telephone number through which such 
                persons who elect to receive information under the 
                pilot program may request information regarding the 
                program; and
                    (F) such other information as the Secretary 
                determines to be appropriate.
            (4) Privacy of information.--In carrying out the pilot 
        program, the Secretary may not disseminate information under 
        paragraph (3) in violation of laws and regulations pertaining 
        to the privacy of members of the Armed Forces, including 
        requirements pursuant to--
                    (A) section 552a of title 5, United States Code; 
                and
                    (B) the Health Insurance Portability and 
                Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-191).
            (5) Notice and modifications.--In carrying out the pilot 
        program, the Secretary shall, with respect to a member of the 
        Armed Forces--
                    (A) ensure that such member is notified of the 
                ability to modify designations made by such member 
                under paragraph (1)(B); and
                    (B) upon the request of a member, authorize such 
                member to modify such designations at any time.
            (6) Contact information.--In making a designation under the 
        pilot program, a member of the Armed Forces shall provide 
        necessary contact information, specifically including an email 
        address, to facilitate the dissemination of information 
        regarding the military service of the member.
            (7) Opt-in and opt-out of program.--
                    (A) Opt-in by members.--A member may participate in 
                the pilot program only if the member voluntarily elects 
                to participate in the program. A member seeking to make 
                such an election shall make such election in a manner, 
                and by including such information, as the Secretary and 
                the Red Cross shall jointly specify for purposes of the 
                pilot program.
                    (B) Opt-in by designated recipients.--A person 
                designated pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) may receive 
                information under the pilot program only if the person 
                makes the election described in paragraph(1)(B).
                    (C) Opt-out.--In carrying out the pilot program, 
                the Secretary shall, with respect to a person who has 
                elected to receive information under such pilot 
                program, cease disseminating such information to that 
                person upon request of such person.
    (b) Survey and Report on Pilot Program.--
            (1) Survey.--Not later than two years after the date on 
        which the pilot program commences, the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the American Red Cross, shall administer a 
        survey to persons who elected to receive information under the 
        pilot program for the purpose of receiving feedback regarding 
        the quality of information disseminated under this section, 
        including whether such information appropriately reflects the 
        military career progression of members of the Armed Forces.
            (2) Report.--Not later than three years after the date on 
        which the pilot program commences, the Secretary shall submit 
        to the congressional defense committees a final report on the 
        pilot program which includes--
                    (A) the results of the survey administered under 
                paragraph (1);
                    (B) a determination as to whether the pilot program 
                should be made permanent; and
                    (C) recommendations as to modifications necessary 
                to improve the program if made permanent.
    (c) Termination of Pilot Program.--The pilot program shall 
terminate upon submission of the report required by subsection (b)(2).

SEC. 581. BRIEFING ON USE OF FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAMS TO ADDRESS 
              DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on 
various mechanisms by which the Family Advocacy Programs (FAPs) of the 
military departments may be used and enhanced in order to end domestic 
violence among members of the Armed Forces and support survivors of 
such violence and their dependents.

                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

SEC. 585. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF THE MEDAL OF HONOR TO JOHN J. 
              DUFFY FOR ACTS OF VALOR IN VIETNAM.

    (a) Waiver of Time Limitations.--Notwithstanding the time 
limitations specified in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, 
or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain 
medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President may 
award the Medal of Honor under section 3741 of such title to John J. 
Duffy for the acts of valor in Vietnam described in subsection (b).
    (b) Acts of Valor Described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
subsection (a) are the actions of John J. Duffy on April 14 and 15, 
1972, in Vietnam for which he was previously awarded the Distinguished-
Service Cross.

SEC. 586. STANDARDIZATION OF HONORABLE SERVICE REQUIREMENT FOR AWARD OF 
              MILITARY DECORATIONS.

    (a) Honorable Service Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 57 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section
``Sec. 1136. Honorable service requirement for award of military 
              decorations
    ``No military decoration, including a medal, cross, or bar, or an 
associated emblem or insignia, may be awarded or presented to any 
person, or to a representative of the person, if the service of the 
person after the person distinguished himself or herself has not been 
honorable.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 57 of such title is amended by adding at 
        the end the following:

``1136. Honorable service requirement for award of military 
                            decorations.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
further amended as follows:
            (1) In section 7274--
                    (A) in subsection (b) in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``subsection (d)'' and 
                inserting ``subsection (c)'';
                    (B) by striking subsection (c); and
                    (C) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
                (c).
            (2)(A) Section 8299 is repealed.
            (B) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 837 
        is amended by striking the item relating to section 8299.
            (3) In section 9274--
                    (A) in subsection (b) in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``subsection (d)'' and 
                inserting ``subsection (c)'';
                    (B) by striking subsection (c); and
                    (C) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
                (c).
            (4) In section 9279, by striking subsection (c).

SEC. 587. AUTHORITY TO AWARD OR PRESENT A DECORATION NOT PREVIOUSLY 
              RECOMMENDED IN A TIMELY FASHION FOLLOWING A REVIEW 
              REQUESTED BY CONGRESS.

    (a) Authority To Award or Present.--Section 1130 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d)(1) A decoration may be awarded or presented following the 
submittal of a recommendation under subsection (b) approving the award 
or presentation.
    ``(2) The authority to make an award or presentation under this 
subsection shall apply notwithstanding any limitation described in 
subsection (a).''.
    (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1130. Consideration of proposals for decorations not previously 
              submitted in timely fashion: procedures for review and 
              award or presentation''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 57 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 1130 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``1130. Consideration of proposals for decorations not previously 
                            submitted in timely fashion: procedures for 
                            review and award or presentation.''.

SEC. 588. AUTHORITY TO MAKE POSTHUMOUS AND HONORARY PROMOTIONS AND 
              APPOINTMENTS FOLLOWING A REVIEW REQUESTED BY CONGRESS.

    (a) Authority To Make.--Section 1563 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsections:
    ``(c) Authority To Make.--(1) Under regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary of Defense, a posthumous or honorary promotion or appointment 
may be made following the submittal of a determination under subsection 
(b) if the determination is to approve the making of such promotion of 
appointment.
    ``(2) The authority to make a promotion or appointment under this 
subsection shall apply notwithstanding that such promotion or 
appointment is not otherwise authorized by law.
    ``(d) Additional Benefits Not To Accrue.--The promotion or 
appointment of individual pursuant to subsection (c) shall not affect 
the retired pay or other benefits from the United States to which the 
individual would have been entitled based upon the individual's 
military service, if any, or affect any benefits to which any other 
person may become entitled based on the individual's military service, 
if any.''.
    (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1563. Consideration of proposals for posthumous and honorary 
              promotions and appointments: procedures for review and 
              promotion or appointment''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 80 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 1563 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``1563. Consideration of proposals for posthumous and honorary 
                            promotions and appointments: procedures for 
                            review and promotion or appointment.''.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

SEC. 591. MILITARY FUNERAL HONORS MATTERS.

    (a) Full Military Honors Ceremony for Certain Veterans.--Section 
1491(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(3) The Secretary concerned shall provide full military honors 
(as determined by the Secretary concerned) for the funeral of a veteran 
who--
            ``(A) is first interred or first inurned in Arlington 
        National Cemetery on or after the date of the enactment of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020;
            ``(B) was awarded the medal of honor or the prisoner-of-war 
        medal; and
            ``(C) is not entitled to full military honors by the grade 
        of that veteran.''.
    (b) Full Military Funeral Honors for Veterans at Military 
Installations.--
            (1) Installation plans for honors required.--The commander 
        of each military installation at or through which a funeral 
        honors detail for a veteran is provided pursuant to section 
        1491 of title 10, United States Code (as amended by subsection 
        (a)), shall maintain and carry out a plan for the provision, 
        upon request, of full military funeral honors at funerals of 
        veterans for whom a funeral honors detail is authorized in that 
        section.
            (2) Elements.--Each plan of an installation under paragraph 
        (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) Mechanisms to ensure compliance with the 
                requirements applicable to the composition of funeral 
                honors details in section 1491(b) of title 10, United 
                States Code (as so amended).
                    (B) Mechanisms to ensure compliance with the 
                requirements for ceremonies for funerals in section 
                1491(c) of such title.
                    (C) In addition to the ceremonies required pursuant 
                to subparagraph (B), the provision of a gun salute for 
                each funeral by appropriate personnel, including 
                personnel of the installation, members of the reserve 
                components of the Armed Forces residing in the vicinity 
                of the installation who are ordered to funeral honors 
                duty, and members of veterans organizations or other 
                organizations referred to in section 1491(b)(2) of such 
                title.
                    (D) Mechanisms for the provision of support 
                authorized by section 1491(d) of such title.
                    (E) Such other mechanisms and activities as the 
                Secretary concerned considers appropriate in order to 
                assure that full military funeral honors are provided 
                upon request at funerals of veterans.
            (3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) The term ``Secretary concerned'' has the 
                meaning given that term in section 101(a)(9) of title 
                10, United States Code.
                    (B) The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given that 
                term in section 1491(h) of title 10, United States 
                Code.

SEC. 592. INCLUSION OF HOMESCHOOLED STUDENTS IN JUNIOR RESERVE 
              OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS UNITS.

    Section 2031 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g)(1) Each public secondary educational institution that 
maintains a unit under this section shall permit membership in the unit 
to homeschooled students residing in the area served by the institution 
who are qualified for membership in the unit (but for lack of 
enrollment in the institution).
    ``(2) A student who is a member of a unit pursuant to this 
subsection shall count toward the satisfaction by the institution 
concerned of the requirement in subsection (b)(1) relating to the 
minimum number of student members in the unit necessary for the 
continuing maintenance of the unit.''.

SEC. 593. SENSE OF SENATE ON THE JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING 
              CORPS.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps (JROTC) is 
        a valuable program that instill the values of citizenship, 
        service to the community, personal responsibility and a sense 
        of accomplishment in high school students;
            (2) the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps is 
        supported by all the Armed Forces, and there are Junior Reserve 
        Officers' Training Corps units in all 50 States, 4 United 
        States territories, and the District of Columbia;
            (3) the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
        consistently improves student outcomes across a wide variety of 
        academic and nonacademic data points, including grade point 
        average, high school graduation and college acceptance rates, 
        standardized test scores, drop-out rates, discipline problems, 
        and leadership skills;
            (4) the Department of Defense should view the Junior 
        Reserve Officers' Training Corps as a unique program to help 
        close the divide between the military and the greater civilian 
        community in the United States;
            (5) given the increased funding and more flexible policy 
        authorized in the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), the Department 
        should take every possible action to increase the number of 
        Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps units at schools around 
        the United States; and
            (6) the desired number of Junior Reserve Officers' Training 
        Corps units should be at least 3,700 in order to relieve a 
        significant backlog in requests to establish such units.

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

SEC. 601. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR EXCEPTIONAL TRANSITIONAL 
              COMPENSATION FOR DEPENDENTS TO DEPENDENTS OF CURRENT 
              MEMBERS.

    Section 1059(m) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Members or'' 
        after ``Dependents of'';
            (2) by inserting ``member or'' before ``former member'' 
        each place it appears;
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph (3):
    ``(3) For purposes of the provision of benefits under this section 
pursuant to this subsection, a member shall be considered separated 
from active duty upon the earliest of--
            ``(A) the date an administrative separation is initiated by 
        a commander of the member;
            ``(B) the date the court-martial sentence is adjudged if 
        the sentence, as adjudged, includes a dismissal, dishonorable 
        discharge, bad conduct discharge, or forfeiture of all pay and 
        allowances; or
            ``(C) the date the member's term of service expires.''.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

SEC. 611. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN EXPIRING BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
              AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Authorities Relating To Reserve Forces.--Section 910(g) of 
title 37, United States Code, relating to income replacement payments 
for reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent 
mobilization for active duty service, is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
    (b) Title 10 Authorities Relating to Health Care Professionals.--
The following sections of title 10, United States Code, are amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020'':
            (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer 
        candidate accession program.
            (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education 
        loans for certain health professionals who serve in the 
        Selected Reserve.
    (c) Authorities Relating to Nuclear Officers.--Section 333(i) of 
title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
    (d) Authorities Relating to Title 37 Consolidated Special Pay, 
Incentive Pay, and Bonus Authorities.--The following sections of title 
37, United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2020'':
            (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
        enlisted members.
            (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
        officers.
            (3) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive 
        pay and bonus authorities for officers.
            (4) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive 
        pay authorities for officers in health professions.
            (5) Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for 
        cadets and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers' 
        Training Corps.
            (6) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
            (7) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special 
        duty pay.
            (8) Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or 
        proficiency bonus.
            (9) Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for 
        members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to 
        high priority units.
    (e) Authority to Provide Temporary Increase in Rates of Basic 
Allowance for Housing.--Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2020''.

            Subtitle C--Travel and Transportation Allowances

SEC. 621. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM ON A GOVERNMENT LODGING PROGRAM.

    Section 914(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (5 U.S.C. 5911 
note) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2020''.

SEC. 622. REINVESTMENT OF TRAVEL REFUNDS BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Refunds for Official Travel.--Subchapter I of chapter 8 of 
title 37, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
``Sec. 456. Managed travel program refunds
    ``(a) Credit of Refunds.--The Secretary of Defense may credit 
refunds attributable to Department of Defense managed travel programs 
as a direct result of official travel to such operation and maintenance 
or research, development, test, and evaluation accounts of the 
Department as designated by the Secretary that are available for 
obligation for the fiscal year in which the refund or amount is 
collected.
    ``(b) Use of Refunds.--Refunds credited under subsection (a) may 
only be used for official travel or operations and efficiency 
improvements for improved financial management of official travel.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Managed travel program.--The term `managed travel 
        program' includes air, rental car, train, bus, dining, lodging, 
        and travel management, but does not include rebates or refunds 
        attributable to the use of the Government travel card, the 
        Government Purchase Card, or Government travel arranged by 
        Government Contracted Travel Management Centers.
            ``(2) Refund.--The term `refund' includes miscellaneous 
        receipts credited to the Department identified as a refund, 
        rebate, repayment, or other similar amounts collected.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 8 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 455 the following new item:

``456. Managed travel program refunds.''.
    (c) Clarification on Retention of Travel Promotional Items.--
Section 1116(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2002 (Public Law 107-107; 5 U.S.C. 5702 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Definition.--In this section, the term'' 
        and inserting the following: ``Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) The term `general public' includes the Federal 
        Government or an agency.''.

     Subtitle D--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

SEC. 631. CONTRIBUTIONS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MILITARY RETIREMENT 
              FUND BASED ON PAY COSTS PER ARMED FORCE RATHER THAN ON 
              ARMED FORCES-WIDE BASIS.

    (a) Determination of Contributions Generally.--Section 1465(c) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``single level 
                percentage of basic pay for active duty (other than the 
                Coast Guard) and for full-time National Guard duty'' 
                and inserting ``percentage of basic pay for each armed 
                force (other than the Coast Guard) and for any full-
                time National Guard duty'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking ``single level''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``members of the Selected 
                        Reserve of the armed forces (other than the 
                        Coast Guard)'' and inserting ``each armed force 
                        (other than the Coast Guard) for members of the 
                        Selected Reserve''; and
                    (C) in the flush matter following subparagraph (B), 
                by striking ``single level''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by striking ``a single level percentage 
                determined'' both places it appears and inserting 
                ``percentages''; and
                    (B) in the flush matter following subparagraph (B), 
                by striking ``single level''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Determination of contributions.--Section 1465(b) of 
        title 10, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding clause 
                                (i), by striking ``product'' and 
                                inserting ``aggregate of the 
                                products'';
                                    (II) in clause (i), by striking 
                                ``single level percentage of basic 
                                pay'' and inserting ``percentage of 
                                basic pay for each armed force (other 
                                than the Coast Guard)''; and
                                    (III) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``for active duty (other than the Coast 
                                Guard) and for full-time National Guard 
                                duty'' and inserting ``for such armed 
                                force for active duty and for any full-
                                time National Guard duty''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding clause 
                                (i), by striking ``product'' and 
                                inserting ``aggregate of the 
                                products'';
                                    (II) in clause (i), by striking 
                                ``single level percentage of basic pay 
                                and of compensation (paid pursuant to 
                                section 206 of title 37)'' and 
                                inserting ``percentage of basic pay and 
                                of compensation (paid pursuant to 
                                section 206 of title 37) for each armed 
                                force (other than the Coast Guard)''; 
                                and
                                    (III) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``the armed forces (other than the 
                                Coast Guard)'' and inserting ``such 
                                armed force''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``single level''.
            (2) Payments of contributions.--Section 1466(a) of such 
        title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``product'' and inserting 
                        ``aggregate of the products'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``level percentage of basic pay'' and inserting 
                        ``percentage of basic pay for each armed force 
                        (other than the Coast Guard)''; and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``for active duty (other than for the Coast 
                        Guard) and for full-time National Guard duty'' 
                        and inserting ``for such armed force for active 
                        duty and for any full-time National Guard 
                        duty''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``product'' and inserting 
                        ``aggregate of the products'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``level percentage of basic pay and of 
                        compensation (paid pursuant to section 206 of 
                        title 37)'' and inserting ``percentage of basic 
                        pay and of compensation (paid pursuant to 
                        section 206 of title 37) for each armed force 
                        (other than the Coast Guard)''; and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``the armed forces (other than the Coast 
                        Guard)'' and inserting ``such armed force''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2019, and shall apply with respect to 
determinations of contributions to the Department of Defense Military 
Retirement Fund, and payments into the Fund, beginning with fiscal year 
2021.

SEC. 632. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES ON ELIGIBILITY FOR AND 
              REPLACEMENT OF GOLD STAR LAPEL BUTTONS.

    (a) Expansion of Authority To Determine Next of Kin for Issuance.--
Section 1126 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``widows, parents, and'' 
        in the matter preceding paragraph (1);
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``the widow and to each 
        parent and'' and inserting ``each''; and
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) 
                and inserting the following new paragraph (1):
            ``(1) The term `next of kin' means individuals standing in 
        such relationship to members of the armed forces described in 
        subsection (a) as the Secretaries concerned shall jointly 
        specify in regulations for purposes of this section.''; and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and 
                (8) as paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5), respectively.
    (b) Replacement.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended by 
striking ``and payment'' and all that follows and inserting ``and 
without cost.''.

   Subtitle E--Commissary and Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality 
                        Benefits and Operations

SEC. 641. DEFENSE RESALE SYSTEM MATTERS.

    (a) In General.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness shall, in coordination with the Chief Management Officer of 
the Department of Defense, maintain oversight of business 
transformation efforts of the defense commissary system and the 
exchange store system in order to ensure the following:
            (1) Development of an intercomponent business strategy that 
        maximizes efficiencies and results in a viable defense resale 
        system in the future.
            (2) Preservation of patron savings and satisfaction from 
        and in the defense commissary system and exchange stores 
        system.
            (3) Sustainment of financial support of the defense 
        commissary and exchange systems for morale, welfare, and 
        recreation (MWR) services of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Executive Resale Board Advice on Operations of Systems.--The 
Executive Resale Board of the Department of Defense shall advise the 
Under Secretary on the implementation of sustainable, complementary 
operations of the defense commissary system and the exchange stores 
system.
    (c) Practices and Services.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall, acting 
        through the Under Secretary and with advice from the Executive 
        Resale Board, require the Defense Commissary Agency and the 
        Military Exchange Service to identify and implement practices 
        and services described in paragraph (2) across the defense 
        resale system.
            (2) Practices and services.--Practices and services 
        described in this paragraph shall include the following:
                    (A) Best commercial business practices.
                    (B) Shared-services systems that increase 
                efficiencies across the defense resale system, 
                including in transportation of goods, application-based 
                marketing initiatives and other mobile electronic-
                commerce programs, facilities construction, back-office 
                information technology systems, human resource 
                management, legal services, financial services, and 
                advertising.
                    (C) Integration of services provided by the 
                exchange stores system within commissary system 
                facilities, as appropriate, including services such as 
                dry cleaning, health and wellness activities, 
                pharmacies, urgent care centers, food, and other retail 
                services.
    (d) Information Technology Modernization.--The Secretary shall, 
acting through the Under Secretary and with advice from the Executive 
Resale Board, require the Defense Commissary Agency and the Military 
Exchange Service to do as follows:
            (1) Field new technologies and best business practices for 
        information technology for the defense resale system.
            (2) Implement cutting-edge marketing opportunities across 
        the defense resale system.
    (e) Inclusion of Advertising in Operating Expenses of Commissary 
Stores.--Section 2483(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following paragraph:
            ``(7) Advertising of commissary sales on materials 
        available within commissary stores and at other on-base 
        locations.''.

SEC. 642. TREATMENT OF FEES ON SERVICES PROVIDED AS SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDS 
              FOR COMMISSARY OPERATIONS.

    Section 2483(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``fees on services provided,'' after ``handling fees for 
tobacco products,''.

SEC. 643. PROCUREMENT BY COMMISSARY STORES OF CERTAIN LOCALLY SOURCED 
              PRODUCTS.

    The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the dairy products and 
fruits and vegetables procured for commissary stores under the defense 
commissary system are, to the extent practicable, locally sourced in 
order to ensure the availability of the freshest possible dairy 
products and fruits and vegetables for patrons of the stores.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

SEC. 701. CONTRACEPTION COVERAGE PARITY UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 1074d(b)(3) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
following: ``(including all methods of contraception approved by the 
Food and Drug Administration, contraceptive care (including with 
respect to insertion, removal, and follow up), sterilization 
procedures, and patient education and counseling in connection 
therewith)''.
    (b) Prohibition on Cost-sharing for Certain Services.--
            (1) TRICARE select.--Section 1075(c) of such title is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) For all beneficiaries under this section, there is no 
        cost-sharing for any method of contraception provided by a 
        network provider.''.
            (2) TRICARE prime.--Section 1075a(b) of such title is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) For all beneficiaries under this section, there is no cost-
sharing for any method of contraception provided under TRICARE 
Prime.''.
            (3) Pharmacy benefits program.--Section 1074g(a)(6) of such 
        title is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subparagraph:
    ``(D) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), there is no 
cost-sharing for any prescription contraceptive on the uniform 
formulary provided by a retail pharmacy described in subsection 
(a)(2)(E)(ii) or the national mail-order pharmacy program.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2020.

SEC. 702. TRICARE PAYMENT OPTIONS FOR RETIREES AND THEIR DEPENDENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1099 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) Payment Options.--(1) A member or former member of the 
uniformed services, or a dependent thereof, eligible for medical care 
and dental care under section 1074(b) or 1076 of this title shall pay a 
premium for coverage under this chapter.
    ``(2) To the maximum extent practicable, a premium owed by a 
member, former member, or dependent under paragraph (1) shall be 
withheld from the retired, retainer, or equivalent pay of the member, 
former member, or dependent. In all other cases, a premium shall be 
paid in a frequency and method determined by the Secretary.''.
    (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Conforming amendments.--Section 1097a of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (c); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), and (f) 
                as subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively.
            (2) Heading amendments.--
                    (A) Automatic enrollments.--The heading for section 
                1097a of such title is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1097a. TRICARE Prime: automatic enrollments''.
                    (B) Enrollment system and payment options.--The 
                heading for section 1099 of such title is amended to 
                read as follows:
``Sec. 1099. Health care enrollment system and payment options''.
            (3) Clerical amendments.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 55 of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking the item relating to section 1097a 
                and inserting the following new item:

``1097a. TRICARE Prime: automatic enrollments.''; and
                    (B) by striking the item relating to section 1099 
                and inserting the following new item:

``1099. Health care enrollment system and payment options.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to health care coverage beginning on or after January 1, 2021.

SEC. 703. LEAD LEVEL SCREENING AND TESTING FOR CHILDREN.

    (a) Comprehensive Screening, Testing, and Reporting Guidelines.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
        clinical practice guidelines for health care providers employed 
        by the Department of Defense on screening, testing and 
        reporting of blood lead levels in children.
            (2) Use of cdc recommendations.--Guidelines established 
        under paragraph (1) shall reflect recommendations made by the 
        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention with respect to the 
        screening, testing, and reporting of blood lead levels in 
        children.
            (3) Dissemination of guidelines.--Not later than one year 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall disseminate the clinical practice guidelines established 
        under paragraph (1) to health care providers of the Department 
        of Defense.
    (b) Care Provided in Accordance With CDC Guidance.--The Secretary 
shall ensure that any care provided by the Department of Defense to a 
child for lead poisoning shall be carried out in accordance with 
applicable guidance issued by the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention.
    (c) Sharing of Results of Testing.--
            (1) In general.--With respect to a child who receives from 
        the Department of Defense a test for lead poisoning--
                    (A) the Secretary shall provide the results of the 
                test to the parent or guardian of the child; and
                    (B) notwithstanding any requirements for the 
                confidentiality of health information under the Health 
                Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 
                (Public Law 104-191), the Secretary shall provide the 
                results of the test and the address at which the child 
                resides to--
                            (i) the relevant health department of the 
                        State in which the child resides if the child 
                        resides in the United States; or
                            (ii) if the child resides outside the 
                        United States--
                                    (I) the Centers for Disease Control 
                                and Prevention; and
                                    (II) the appropriate authority of 
                                the country in which the child resides.
            (2) State defined.--In this subsection, the term ``State'' 
        means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the 
        Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of 
        the United States.
    (d) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report detailing, with respect to the period 
        beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending 
        on the date of the report, the following:
                    (A) The number of children who were tested by the 
                Department of Defense for the level of lead in the 
                blood of the child, and of such number, the number who 
                were found to have elevated blood lead levels.
                    (B) The number of children who were screened by the 
                Department of Defense for an elevated risk of lead 
                exposure.
                    (C) The treatment provided to children pursuant to 
                chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, for lead 
                poisoning.
            (2) Elevated blood lead level defined.--In this paragraph, 
        the term ``elevated blood lead level'' has the meaning given 
        that term by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

SEC. 704. PROVISION OF BLOOD TESTING FOR FIREFIGHTERS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE TO DETERMINE EXPOSURE TO PERFLUOROALKYL AND 
              POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.

    (a) In General.--Beginning on October 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall provide blood testing to determine and document potential 
exposure to perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances (commonly 
known as ``PFAS'') for each firefighter of the Department of Defense 
during the annual physical exam conducted by the Department for each 
such firefighter.
    (b) Firefighter Defined.--In this section, the term ``firefighter'' 
means someone whose primary job or military occupational specialty is 
being a firefighter.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

SEC. 711. MODIFICATION OF ORGANIZATION OF MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM.

    (a) Administration of Military Medical Treatment Facilities.--
Subsection (a) of section 1073c of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), 
                (D), (E), and (F) as subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), (G), 
                (H), and (I), respectively;
                    (B) by inserting before subparagraph (C), as 
                redesignated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the 
                following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(A) provision and delivery of health care within 
                each such facility;
                    ``(B) management of privileging, scope of practice, 
                and quality of health care provided within each such 
                facility;''; and
                    (C) inserting the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) supply and equipment;'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (G) 
                as subparagraphs (E) through (H), respectively;
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the 
                following new subparagraph (D):
                    ``(D) to identify the capacity of each military 
                medical treatment facility to support clinical 
                readiness standards of health care providers 
                established by the Secretary of a military department 
                or the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health 
                Affairs;'' and
                    (C) by amending subparagraph (F), as redesignated 
                by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(F) to determine, in coordination with each 
                Secretary of a military department, manning, including 
                joint manning, assigned to military medical treatment 
                facilities and intermediary organizations;'' and
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by inserting ``on behalf of the 
                        military departments,'' before ``ensuring''; 
                        and
                            (ii) by striking ``and civilian 
                        employees''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``on behalf 
                of the Defense Health Agency,'' before ``furnishing''.
    (b) DHA Assistant Director.--Subsection (b)(2) of such section is 
amended by striking ``equivalent education and experience'' and all 
that follows and inserting ``the education and experience to perform 
the responsibilities of the position.''.
    (c) DHA Deputy Assistant Directors.--Subsection (c) of such section 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``across the military 
        health system'' and inserting ``at military medical treatment 
        facilities''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4)(B), by inserting ``at military medical 
        treatment facilities'' before the period at the end.
    (d) Military Medical Treatment Facility.--Subsection (f) of such 
section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) The term `military medical treatment facility' 
        means--
                    ``(A) any fixed facility of the Department of 
                Defense that is outside of a deployed environment and 
                used primarily for health care; and
                    ``(B) any other location used for purposes of 
                providing health care services as designated by the 
                Secretary of Defense.''.
    (e) Technical Amendments.--Subsection (a) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``paragraph (4)'' and 
        inserting ``paragraph (5)'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6);
            (3) by redesignating the first paragraph (4) as paragraph 
        (5); and
            (4) by moving the second paragraph (4) so as to appear 
        before paragraph (5), as redesignated by paragraph (3) of this 
        subsection.

SEC. 712. SUPPORT BY MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM OF MEDICAL REQUIREMENTS OF 
              COMBATANT COMMANDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 712 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by amending paragraph (1) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall, acting 
        through the Secretaries of the military departments, the 
        Defense Health Agency, and the Joint Staff, implement an 
        organizational framework of the military health system that 
        effectively implements chapter 55 of title 10, United States 
        Code, to maximize the readiness of the medical force, promote 
        interoperability, and integrate medical capabilities of the 
        Armed Forces in order to enhance joint military medical 
        operations in support of requirements of the combatant 
        commands.'';
            (2) in subsection (e), by redesignating paragraphs (2) and 
        (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively, and by moving such 
        paragraphs so as to appear at the end of subsection (d);
            (3) by striking subsection (e), as amended by paragraph (2) 
        of this subsection;
            (4) by redesignating subsections (b) through (d) as 
        subsections (c) through (e), respectively;
            (5) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection (b):
    ``(b) Additional Duties of Surgeons General of the Armed Forces.--
The Surgeons General of the Armed Forces shall have the following 
duties:
            ``(1) To ensure the readiness for operational deployment of 
        medical and dental personnel and deployable medical or dental 
        teams or units of the Armed Force or Armed Forces concerned.
            ``(2) To meet medical readiness standards, subject to 
        standards and metrics established by the Assistant Secretary of 
        Defense for Health Affairs.
            ``(3) With respect to uniformed medical and dental 
        personnel of the military department concerned--
                    ``(A) to assign such personnel to military medical 
                treatment facilities, under the operational control of 
                the commander or director of the facility, or to 
                partnerships with civilian or other medical facilities 
                for training activities specific to such military 
                department; and
                    ``(B) to maintain readiness of such personnel for 
                operational deployment.
            ``(4) To provide logistical support for operational 
        deployment of medical and dental personnel and deployable 
        medical or dental teams or units of the Armed Force or Armed 
        Forces concerned.
            ``(5) To oversee mobilization and demobilization in 
        connection with the operational deployment of medical and 
        dental personnel of the Armed Force or Armed Forces concerned.
            ``(6) To develop operational medical capabilities required 
        to support the warfighter, and to develop policy relating to 
        such capabilities.
            ``(7) To provide health professionals to serve in 
        leadership positions across the military healthcare system.
            ``(8) To deliver operational clinical services under the 
        operational control of the combatant commands--
                    ``(A) on ships and planes; and
                    ``(B) on installations outside of military medical 
                treatment facilities.
            ``(9) To manage privileging, scope of practice, and quality 
        of health care in the settings described in paragraph (8).'';
            (6) in subsection (c), as redesignated by paragraph (4) of 
        this subsection--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
                ``Agency'' before ``Regions''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the paragraph heading, by inserting 
                        ``Agency'' before ``regions''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``defense health'' and 
                        inserting ``Defense Health Agency'';
            (7) in subsection (d), as redesignated by paragraph (4) of 
        this subsection--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
                ``Agency'' before ``Regions'';
                    (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``defense health'' and inserting ``Defense 
                Health Agency''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``subsection 
                (b)'' and inserting ``subsection (c)''; and
            (8) in subsection (e), as redesignated by paragraph (4) of 
        this subsection--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as 
                        follows:
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretaries of the military 
                departments shall coordinate with the Chairman of the 
                Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Defense Health Agency to 
                direct resources allocated to the military departments 
                to support requirements related to readiness and 
                operational medicine support that are established by 
                the combatant commands and validated by the Joint 
                Staff.''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), in the matter 
                        preceding clause (i), by striking ``Based on'' 
                        and all that follows through ``shall--'' and 
                        inserting ``The Director of the Defense Health 
                        Agency, in coordination with the Assistant 
                        Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, 
                        shall--'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3), as moved and redesignated by 
                paragraph (2) of this subsection, in the second 
                sentence--
                            (i) by inserting ``primarily'' before 
                        ``through''; and
                            (ii) by inserting``, in coordination with 
                        the Secretaries of the military departments,'' 
                        after ``the Defense Health Agency''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Manpower.--
                    ``(A) Administrative control of military 
                personnel.--Each Secretary of a military department 
                shall exercise administrative control of members of the 
                Armed Forces assigned to military medical treatment 
                facilities, including personnel assignment and issuance 
                of military orders.
                    ``(B) Oversight of certain personnel by the 
                director of the defense health agency.--In situations 
                in which members of the Armed Forces provide health 
                care services at a military medical treatment facility, 
                the Director of the Defense Health Agency shall 
                maintain oversight for the provision of care delivered 
                by those individuals through policies, procedures, and 
                privileging responsibilities of the military medical 
                treatment facility.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading for section 712 of the 
        John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 712. SUPPORT BY MILITARY HEALTHCARE SYSTEM OF MEDICAL 
              REQUIREMENTS OF COMBATANT COMMANDS.''.

            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for such Act 
        is amended by striking the item relating to section 712 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 712. Support by military healthcare system of medical 
                            requirements of combatant commands.''.

SEC. 713. TOURS OF DUTY OF COMMANDERS OR DIRECTORS OF MILITARY 
              TREATMENT FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense shall establish a minimum length for the tour of duty of an 
individual as a commander or director of a military treatment facility.
    (b) Tours of Duty.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        length of the tour of duty as a commander or director of a 
        military treatment facility of any individual assigned to such 
        position after January 1, 2021, may not be shorter than the 
        longer of--
                    (A) the length established pursuant to subsection 
                (a); or
                    (B) four years.
            (2) Waiver.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of the military 
                department concerned, in coordination with the Director 
                of the Defense Health Agency, may authorize a tour of 
                duty of an individual as a commander or director of a 
                military treatment facility of a shorter length than is 
                otherwise provided for in paragraph (1) if the 
                Secretary determines, in the discretion of the 
                Secretary, that there is good cause for a tour of duty 
                in such position of shorter length.
                    (B) Case-by-case basis.--Any determination under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be made on a case-by-case basis.

SEC. 714. EXPANSION OF STRATEGY TO IMPROVE ACQUISITION OF MANAGED CARE 
              SUPPORT CONTRACTS UNDER TRICARE PROGRAM.

    Section 705(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 1073a note) is amended, 
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``, other than 
overseas medical support contracts''.

SEC. 715. ESTABLISHMENT OF REGIONAL MEDICAL HUBS TO SUPPORT COMBATANT 
              COMMANDS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish not more 
than four regional medical hubs, consistent with the defense health 
regions established under section 712 of the John S. McCain National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), to 
support operational medical requirements of the combatant commands.
    (b) Timing.--Establishment of regional medical hubs under 
subsection (a) shall commence not later than October 1, 2020, and shall 
be completed not later than October 1, 2022.
    (c) Leadership.--Each regional medical hub established under 
subsection (a) shall be led by a commander or director who is a member 
of the Armed Forces serving in a grade not higher than major general or 
rear admiral and who shall be--
            (1) selected by the Director of the Defense Health Agency 
        from among members of the Armed Forces recommended by the 
        military departments for service in such position; and
            (2) under the authority, direction, and control of the 
        Director while serving in such position.
    (d) Designation of Primary Center.--
            (1) In general.--Each regional medical hub established 
        under subsection (a) shall include a major military medical 
        center designated by the Secretary to serve as the primary 
        center for the provision of specialized medical services in 
        that region.
            (2) Capabilities.--A major military medical center may not 
        be designated under paragraph (1) unless the center--
                    (A) includes one or more large graduate medical 
                education training platforms; and
                    (B) provides, at a minimum, role 4 medical care.
            (3) Location.--
                    (A) In general.--Any major military medical center 
                designated under paragraph (1) shall be geographically 
                located so as to maximize the support provided by 
                uniformed medical resources to the combatant commands.
                    (B) Collocation with major aerial debarkation 
                points.--In designating major military medical centers 
                under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give 
                consideration to the collocation of such centers with 
                major aerial debarkation points of patients in the 
                medical evacuation system of the United States 
                Transportation Command.
            (4) Major health care delivery platform.--A major military 
        medical center designated under paragraph (1) shall serve as 
        the major health care delivery platform for the provision of 
        complex specialized medical care in the region, whether through 
        patient referrals from other military medical treatment 
        facilities or through referrals from either civilian medical 
        facilities or healthcare facilities of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs.
    (e) Additional Military Medical Centers.--Consistent with section 
1073d of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary, in establishing 
regional medical hubs under subsection (a), may establish additional 
military medical centers in the following locations:
            (1) Locations with large beneficiary populations.
            (2) Locations that serve as the primary readiness platforms 
        of the Armed Forces.
    (f) Patient Referrals and Coordination.--In implementing the 
regional medical hubs established under subsection (a), the Director of 
the Defense Health Agency shall ensure effective and efficient medical 
care referrals and coordination among military medical treatment 
facilities and among local or regional high-performing health systems 
through local or regional partnerships with institutional or individual 
civilian providers.

SEC. 716. MONITORING OF ADVERSE EVENT DATA ON DIETARY SUPPLEMENT USE BY 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall modify the 
electronic health record system of the military health system to 
include data regarding the use by members of the Armed Forces of 
dietary supplements and adverse events with respect to dietary 
supplements.
    (b) Requirements.--The modifications required by subsection (a) 
shall ensure that the electronic health record system of the military 
health system--
            (1) records adverse event report data regarding dietary 
        supplement use by members of the Armed Forces;
            (2) generates standard reports on adverse event data that 
        can be aggregated for analysis;
            (3) issues automated alerts to signal a significant change 
        in adverse event reporting or to signal a risk of interaction 
        with a medication or other treatment; and
            (4) provides for reporting of adverse event report data 
        regarding dietary supplement use by members of the Armed Forces 
        to the Food and Drug Administration.
    (c) Outreach.--The Secretary shall conduct outreach to health care 
providers in the military health system to educate such providers on 
the importance of entering adverse event report data regarding dietary 
supplement use by members of the Armed Forces into the electronic 
health record system of the military health system and reporting such 
data to the Food and Drug Administration.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Adverse event.--The term ``adverse event'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 761(a) of the Federal Food, 
        Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 379aa-1(a)).
            (2) Dietary supplement.--The term ``dietary supplement'' 
        has the meaning given that term in section 201(ff) of the 
        Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(ff)).

SEC. 717. ENHANCEMENT OF RECORDKEEPING WITH RESPECT TO EXPOSURE BY 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES TO CERTAIN OCCUPATIONAL AND 
              ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS WHILE DEPLOYED OVERSEAS.

    (a) Inclusion in Medical Tracking System of Occupational and 
Environmental Health Risks in Deployment Area.--
            (1) Elements of medical tracking system.--Subsection 
        (b)(1)(A) of section 1074f of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``and'' at the end;
                    (B) in clause (iii), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                    ``(iv) accurately record any exposure to 
                occupational and environmental health risks during the 
                course of their deployment.''.
            (2) Recordkeeping.--Subsection (c) of such section is 
        amended by inserting after ``deployment area'' the following: 
        ``(including the results of any assessment performed by the 
        Secretary of occupational and environmental health risks for 
        such area)''.
    (b) Postdeployment Medical Examination and Reassessments.--Section 
1074f of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a), is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Additional Requirements for Postdeployment Medical 
Examinations and Health Reassessments.--(1) The Secretary of Defense 
shall standardize and make available to a provider that conducts a 
postdeployment medical examination or reassessment under the system 
described in subsection (a) questions relating to occupational and 
environmental health exposure.
    ``(2) The Secretary, to the extent practicable, shall ensure that 
the medical record of a member includes information on the external 
cause relating to a diagnosis of the member, including by associating 
an external cause code (as issued under the International Statistical 
Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems, 10th Revision 
(or any successor revision)).''.
    (c) Access to Information in Burn Pit Registry.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
        all medical personnel of the Department of Defense have access 
        to the information contained in the burn pit registry.
            (2) Burn pit registry defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``burn pit registry'' means the registry established under 
        section 201 of the Dignified Burial and Other Veterans' 
        Benefits Improvement Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-260; 38 U.S.C. 
        527 note).

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

SEC. 721. EXTENSION AND CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL 
              FACILITY DEMONSTRATION FUND.

    Title XVII of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2567) is amended--
            (1) in section 1701(a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Subject to subsection (b), the'' 
                and inserting ``The'';
                    (B) by striking subsection (b); and
                    (C) by redesignating subsections (c) through (f) as 
                subsections (b) through (e), respectively;
            (2) in section 1702(a)(1), by striking ``hereafter in this 
        title'' and inserting ``in this section'';
            (3) in section 1703, in subsections (a) and (c), by 
        striking ``the facility'' and inserting ``the James A. Lovell 
        Federal Health Care Center'';
            (4) in section 1704--
                    (A) in subsections (a)(3), (a)(4)(A), and (b)(1), 
                by striking ``the facility'' and inserting ``the James 
                A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e), as most recently amended by 
                section 731 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
                232), by striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting 
                ``September 30, 2021'';
            (5) in section 1705--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``the facility'' 
                and inserting ``the James A. Lovell Federal Health Care 
                Center (in this section referred to as the 
                `JALFHCC')'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``the facility'' and 
                inserting ``the JALFHCC''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) by striking ``the facility'' each place 
                        it appears and inserting ``the JALFHCC''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        paragraph:
            ``(4) To permit the JALFHCC to enter into personal services 
        contracts to carry out health care responsibilities in the 
        JALFHCC to the same extent and subject to the same conditions 
        and limitations as apply under section 1091 of title 10, United 
        States Code, to the Secretary of Defense with respect to health 
        care responsibilities in medical treatment facilities of the 
        Department of Defense.''.

SEC. 722. APPOINTMENT OF NON-EX OFFICIO MEMBERS OF THE HENRY M. JACKSON 
              FOUNDATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF MILITARY MEDICINE.

    (a) Appointment by Non-ex Officio Members.--Subparagraph (C) of 
paragraph (1) of section 178(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(C) six members, each of whom shall be appointed at the 
        expiration of the term of a member appointed under this 
        subparagraph, as provided for in paragraph (2), by the members 
        currently serving on the Council pursuant to this subparagraph 
        and paragraph (2), including the member whose expiring term is 
        so being filled by such appointment.''.
    (b) Repeal of Obsolete Authority Establishing Staggered Terms.--
Paragraph (2) of such section is amended--
            (1) by striking ``except that--'' and all that follows 
        through ``any person'' and inserting ``except that any 
        person'';
            (2) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a period; and
            (3) by striking subparagraph (B).
    (c) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Construction for current members.--Nothing in the 
        amendments made by this section shall be construed to terminate 
        or otherwise alter the appointment or term of service of 
        members of the Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement 
        of Military Medicine who are so serving on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act pursuant to an appointment under 
        paragraph (1)(C) or (2) of section 178(c) of title 10, United 
        States Code, made before that date.

SEC. 723. OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO COMMAND ARMY DENTAL UNITS.

    Section 7081(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``Dental Corps Officer'' and inserting ``Army Medical 
Department Officer''.

SEC. 724. ESTABLISHMENT OF ACADEMIC HEALTH SYSTEM IN NATIONAL CAPITAL 
              REGION.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 104 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 2113a the following new section:
``Sec. 2113b. Academic Health System
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may establish an 
Academic Health System to integrate the health care, health professions 
education, and health research activities of the military health 
system, including under this chapter, in the National Capital Region.
    ``(b) Leadership.--(1) The Secretary may appoint employees of the 
Department of Defense to leadership positions in the Academic Health 
System established under subsection (a).
    ``(2) Such positions may include responsibilities for management of 
the health care, health professions education, and health research 
activities described in subsection (a) and are in addition to similar 
leadership positions for members of the armed forces.
    ``(c) Administration.--The Secretary may use such authorities under 
this chapter relating to the health care, health professions education, 
and health research activities of the military health system as the 
Secretary considers appropriate for the administration of the Academic 
Health System established under subsection (a).
    ``(d) National Capital Region Defined.--In this section, the term 
`National Capital Region' means the area, or portion thereof, as 
determined by the Secretary, in the vicinity of the District of 
Columbia.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 104 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2113a the following new item:

``2113b. Academic Health System.''.

SEC. 725. PROVISION OF VETERINARY SERVICES BY VETERINARY PROFESSIONALS 
              OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IN EMERGENCIES.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 53 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1060c. Provision of veterinary services in emergencies
    ``(a) In General.--A veterinary professional described in 
subsection (b) may provide veterinary services for the purposes 
described in subsection (c) in any State, the District of Columbia, or 
a territory or possession of the United States, without regard to where 
such veterinary professional or the patient animal are located, if the 
provision of such services is within the scope of the authorized duties 
of such veterinary professional for the Department of Defense.
    ``(b) Veterinary Professional Described.--A veterinary professional 
described in this subsection is an individual who is--
            ``(1)(A) a member of the armed forces, a civilian employee 
        of the Department of Defense, or otherwise credentialed and 
        privileged at a Federal veterinary institution or location 
        designated by the Secretary of Defense for purposes of this 
        section; or
            ``(B) a member of the National Guard performing training or 
        duty under section 502(f) of title 32;
            ``(2) certified as a veterinary professional by a 
        certification recognized by the Secretary of Defense; and
            ``(3) currently licensed by a State, the District of 
        Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States to 
        provide veterinary services.
    ``(c) Purposes Described.--The purposes described in this 
subsection are veterinary services in response to any of the following:
            ``(1) A national emergency declared by the President 
        pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et 
        seq.).
            ``(2) A major disaster or an emergency (as those terms are 
        defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
        Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122)).
            ``(3) A public health emergency declared by the Secretary 
        of Health and Human Services under section 319 of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d).
            ``(4) An extraordinary emergency, as determined by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture under section 10407(b) of the Animal 
        Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8306(b)).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 53 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1060b the following new item:

``1060c. Provision of veterinary services in emergencies.''.

SEC. 726. FIVE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE THE DOD-VA 
              HEALTH CARE SHARING INCENTIVE FUND.

    Section 8111(d)(3) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting, ``September 30, 2025''.

SEC. 727. PILOT PROGRAM ON CIVILIAN AND MILITARY PARTNERSHIPS TO 
              ENHANCE INTEROPERABILITY AND MEDICAL SURGE CAPABILITY AND 
              CAPACITY OF NATIONAL DISASTER MEDICAL SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a pilot 
program to establish partnerships with public, private, and nonprofit 
health care organizations, institutions, and entities in collaboration 
with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary 
of Transportation to enhance the interoperability and medical surge 
capability and capacity of the National Disaster Medical System under 
section 2812 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300hh-11) in 
the vicinity of major aeromedical transport hubs of the Department of 
Defense.
    (b) Duration.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out the pilot 
program under subsection (a) for a period of not more than five years.
    (c) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
under subsection (a) at not fewer than five aeromedical transport hub 
regions in the United States.
    (d) Requirements.--In establishing partnerships under the pilot 
program under subsection (a), the Secretary, in collaboration with the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of 
Transportation, shall establish requirements under such partnerships 
for staffing, specialized training, medical logistics, telemedicine, 
patient regulating, movement, situational status reporting, tracking, 
and surveillance.
    (e) Evaluation Metrics.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the pilot program under 
subsection (a).
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                commencement of the pilot program under subsection (a), 
                the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
                Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
                a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) A description of the pilot program.
                            (ii) The requirements established under 
                        subsection (d).
                            (iii) The evaluation metrics established 
                        under subsection (e).
                            (iv) Such other matters relating to the 
                        pilot program as the Secretary considers 
                        appropriate.
            (2) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after 
                completion of the pilot program under subsection (a), 
                the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
                Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
                a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) A description of the pilot program, 
                        including the partnerships established under 
                        the pilot program as described in subsection 
                        (a).
                            (ii) An assessment of the effectiveness of 
                        the pilot program.
                            (iii) Such recommendations for legislative 
                        or administrative action as the Secretary 
                        considers appropriate in light of the pilot 
                        program, including recommendations for 
                        extending or making permanent the authority for 
                        the pilot program.

SEC. 728. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR LONGITUDINAL MEDICAL STUDY 
              ON BLAST PRESSURE EXPOSURE OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    Section 734 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1444) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) assess the feasibility and advisability of--
                    ``(A) uploading the data gathered from the study 
                into the Defense Occupational and Environmental Health 
                Readiness System - Industrial Hygiene (DOEHRS-IH) or 
                similar system; and
                    ``(B) allowing personnel of the Department of 
                Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to have 
                access to such system.''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (3); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) Annual status report.--Not later than January 1 of 
        each year during the period beginning on the date of the 
        enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2020 and ending on the completion of the study under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        status report on the study.''.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

           Subtitle A--Contracting and Acquisition Provisions

SEC. 801. PILOT PROGRAM ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY EVALUATION FOR 
              ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.

    (a) Pilot Program.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of 
the military departments may jointly carry out a pilot program to 
assess mechanisms to evaluate intellectual property, such as technical 
data deliverables and associated license rights, including commercially 
available intellectual property valuation analysis and techniques, in 
acquisition programs for which they are responsible to better 
understand the benefits associated with these techniques on--
            (1) the development of cost-effective intellectual property 
        strategies, and
            (2) assessment and management of the value and costs of 
        intellectual property during acquisition and sustainment 
        activities (including source selection evaluation factors) 
        throughout the acquisition lifecycle for any acquisition 
        program selected by the Secretary concerned.
    (b) Activities.--Activities carried out under the pilot program may 
include the following:
            (1) Establishing a team of Department of Defense and 
        private sector subject matter experts to identify, to the 
        maximum extent practicable at each milestone for a selected 
        acquisition programs, intellectual property evaluation 
        techniques to obtain quantitative and qualitative analysis 
        related to the value of intellectual property during the 
        procurement, production and deployment, and operations and 
        support phases of the acquisition of the systems under the 
        program.
            (2) Assessment of commercial valuation techniques for 
        intellectual property for use by the Department of Defense.
            (3) Assessment of the feasibility of agency-level oversight 
        to standardize intellectual property evaluation practices and 
        procedures.
            (4) Assessment of contracting mechanisms to speed delivery 
        of intellectual property to the Armed Forces or reduce 
        sustainment costs.
            (5) Assessment of agency acquisition planning to ensure 
        procurement of intellectual property deliverables and 
        intellectual property rights necessary for Government-planned 
        sustainment activities.
            (6) Engagement with the commercial industry to--
                    (A) support the development of strategies and 
                program requirements to aid in acquisition and 
                transition planning for intellectual property;
                    (B) support the development and improvement of 
                intellectual property strategies as part of life-cycle 
                sustainment plans; and
                    (C) propose and implement alternative and 
                innovative methods of intellectual property valuation, 
                prioritization, and evaluation techniques for 
                intellectual property.
            (7) Recommending to the cognizant program manager for an 
        acquisition program evaluation techniques and contracting 
        mechanisms for implementation into the acquisition and 
        sustainment activities of that acquisition program.
    (c) Acquisition of Commercial and Nondevelopmental Items, Products, 
and Services.--The pilot program shall provide criteria to ensure the 
appropriate consideration of commercial items and non-developmental 
items as alternatives to items to be specifically developed for the 
acquisition program, including evaluation of the benefits of reduced 
risk regarding cost, schedule, and performance associated with 
commercial and non-developmental items, products, and services.
    (d) Assessments.--Not later than November 1, 2020, and annually 
thereafter through 2023, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretaries concerned, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a joint report on the pilot program conducted under this 
section. The report shall, at a minimum, include--
            (1) a description of the acquisition programs selected by 
        the Secretary concerned;
            (2) a description of the specific activities in paragraph 
        (b) that were performed under each program;
            (3) an assessment of the effectiveness of the activities;
            (4) an assessment of improvements to acquisition or 
        sustainment activities related to the pilot program; and
            (5) an assessment of cost-savings from the activities 
        related to the pilot program, including any improvement to 
        mission success during the operations and support phase of the 
        program.

SEC. 802. PILOT PROGRAM TO USE ALPHA CONTRACTING TEAMS FOR COMPLEX 
              REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall select at least 
2, and up to 5, initiatives to participate in a pilot to use teams 
that, with the advice of expert third parties, focus on the development 
of complex contract technical requirements for services, with each team 
focusing on developing achievable technical requirements that are 
appropriately valued and identifying the most effective acquisition 
strategy to achieve those requirements.
    (2) The Secretary shall develop metrics for tracking progress of 
the program at improving quality and acquisition cycle time.
    (b) Development of Criteria and Initiatives.--(1) Not later than 
February 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall establish the pilot 
program and notify the congressional defense committees of the criteria 
used to select initiatives and the metrics used to track progress.
    (2) Not later than May 1, 2020, the Secretary shall notify the 
congressional defense committees of the initiatives selected for the 
program.
    (3) Not later than December 1, 2020, the Secretary shall brief the 
congressional defense committees on the progress of the selected 
initiatives, including the progress of the initiatives at improving 
quality and acquisition cycle time according to the metrics developed 
under subsection (a)(2).

SEC. 803. MODIFICATION OF WRITTEN APPROVAL REQUIREMENT FOR TASK AND 
              DELIVERY ORDER SINGLE CONTRACT AWARDS.

    Section 2304a(d)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by redesignating clauses (i) and 
        (ii) as subclauses (I) and (II), respectively;
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) 
        as clauses (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv), respectively;
            (3) by striking ``No task or delivery order contract'' and 
        inserting ``(A) Except as provided under subparagraph (B), no 
        task or delivery order contract''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) A task or delivery order contract in an amount estimated to 
exceed $100,000,000 (including all options) may be awarded to a single 
source without the written determination otherwise required under 
subparagraph (A) if the head of the agency has made a written 
determination pursuant to section 2304(c) of this title that other than 
competitive procedures may be used for the awarding of such 
contract.''.

SEC. 804. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
              PRODUCED IN COUNTRIES ALONG A MAJOR ROUTE OF SUPPLY TO 
              AFGHANISTAN.

    Section 801(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2399), as most recently amended 
by section 1214 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1649), is further amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.

SEC. 805. MODIFICATION OF DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION 
              REPORT.

    Section 139(h)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(5) The Director shall solicit comments from the Secretaries of 
the military departments on each report of the Director to Congress 
under this section and summarize the comments in the report. The 
Director shall determine the amount of time available for the 
Secretaries to comment on the draft report on a case by case basis, and 
consider the extent to which substantive discussions have already been 
held between the Director and the military department. The Director 
shall reserve the right to issue the report without comment from a 
military department if the department's comments are not received 
within the time provided, and shall indicate any such omission in the 
report.''.

SEC. 806. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE USE OF FIXED-PRICE CONTRACTS.

    (a) Department of Defense Review.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment shall review how the Department of 
        Defense informs decisions to use fixed-price contracts to 
        support broader acquisition objectives, to ensure that such 
        decisions are made strategically and consistently. The review 
        should include decisions on the use of the various types of 
        fixed price contracts, including fixed-price incentive 
        contracts.
            (2) Briefing.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the Under 
        Secretary shall brief the congressional defense committees on 
        the findings of the review required under paragraph (1).
    (b) Comptroller General Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2021, the 
        Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the Department of 
        Defense's use of fixed-price contracts, including different 
        types of fixed-price contracts.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following elements:
                    (A) A description of the extent to which fixed-
                price contracts have been used over time and the 
                conditions in which they are used.
                    (B) An assessment of the effects of the decisions 
                to use of fixed-price contract types, such as any 
                additional costs or savings or efficiencies in contract 
                administration.
                    (C) An assessment of how decisions to use various 
                types of fixed-price contracts affects the contract 
                closeout process.
    (c) Delayed Implementation of Regulations Requiring the Use of 
Fixed-price Contracts for Foreign Military Sales.--The regulations 
prescribed pursuant to section 830(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 22 U.S.C. 
2762 note) shall not take effect until December 31, 2020. The 
regulations as so prescribed shall take into account the findings of 
the review conducted under subsection (a)(1).

SEC. 807. PILOT PROGRAM TO ACCELERATE CONTRACTING AND PRICING 
              PROCESSES.

    Section 890 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b);
            (2) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (b) and (c), respectively;
            (3) in subsection (b), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
        striking ``and an assessment of whether the program should be 
        continued or expanded''; and
            (4) in subsection (c), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``January 2, 2021'' and inserting ``January 2, 2023''.

SEC. 808. PILOT PROGRAM TO STREAMLINE DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES FOR 
              WEAPON SYSTEMS.

    (a) Candidate Acquisition Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2020, each 
        Service Acquisition Executive shall recommend to the Secretary 
        of Defense at least one major defense acquisition program for a 
        pilot program to include tailored measures to streamline the 
        entire milestone decision process, with the results evaluated 
        and reported for potential wider use.
            (2) Elements.--Each pilot program selected pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
                    (A) Delineating the appropriate information needed 
                to support milestone decisions, assuring program 
                accountability and oversight, which should be based on 
                the business case principles needed for well-informed 
                milestone decisions, including user-defined 
                requirements, reasonable acquisition and life-cycle 
                cost estimates, and a knowledge-based acquisition plan 
                for maturing technologies, stabilizing the program 
                design, and ensuring key manufacturing processes are in 
                control.
                    (B) Developing an efficient process for providing 
                this information to the milestone decision authority 
                by--
                            (i) minimizing any reviews between the 
                        program office and the different functional 
                        staff offices within each chain of command 
                        level; and
                            (ii) establishing frequent, regular 
                        interaction between the program office and 
                        milestone decision makers, in lieu of 
                        documentation reviews, to help expedite the 
                        process.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall provide to the 
congressional defense committees an informal briefing detailing--
            (1) the acquisition programs selected pursuant to 
        subsection (a);
            (2) the associated action plans, including timelines, for 
        each program; and
            (3) the manner in which each program conforms to the 
        requirements set forth in subsection (a)(2).

SEC. 809. DOCUMENTATION OF MARKET RESEARCH RELATED TO COMMERCIAL ITEM 
              DETERMINATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2377(c) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(4) The head of an agency shall document the results of 
        market research in a manner appropriate to the size and 
        complexity of the acquisition.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment Related to Prospective Amendment.--Section 
836(d)(3)(C)(ii) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended by striking 
``in paragraph (4)'' and inserting ``in paragraph (5)''.

SEC. 810. MODIFICATION TO SMALL PURCHASE THRESHOLD EXCEPTION TO 
              SOURCING REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN ARTICLES.

    Subsection (h) of section 2533a of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(h) Exception for Small Purchases.--Subsection (a) does not apply 
to purchases for amounts not greater than $150,000. A proposed purchase 
or contract for an amount greater than $150,000 may not be divided into 
several purchases or contracts for lesser amounts in order to qualify 
for this exception. On October 1 of each year evenly divisible by 5, 
the Secretary of Defense may adjust the dollar threshold in this 
subsection based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. The Secretary 
shall publish notice of any such adjustment in the Federal Register, 
and the new price threshold shall take effect on the date of 
publication.''.

 Subtitle B--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

SEC. 821. NAVAL VESSEL CERTIFICATION REQUIRED BEFORE MILESTONE B 
              APPROVAL.

    Section 2366b(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)(O), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) in the case of a naval vessel program, certifies 
        compliance with the requirements of section 8669b of this 
        title.''.

                  Subtitle C--Industrial Base Matters

SEC. 831. MODERNIZATION OF ACQUISITION PROCESSES TO ENSURE INTEGRITY OF 
              INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    (a) Digitization and Modernization.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
streamline and digitize the existing Department of Defense approach for 
identifying and mitigating risks to the defense industrial base across 
the acquisition process, creating a continuous model that uses digital 
tools, technologies, and approaches designed to ensure the 
accessibility of data to key decision-makers in the Department.
    (b) Analytical Framework.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment, in coordination with the Defense 
        Security Service (or successor entity) and other organizations 
        as appropriate, shall develop an analytical framework for risk 
        mitigation across the acquisition process.
            (2) Elements.--The analytical framework required under 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
                    (A) Characterization and monitoring of supply chain 
                risks, including--
                            (i) material sources and fragility;
                            (ii) counterfeit parts;
                            (iii) cybersecurity of contractors;
                            (iv) vendor vetting in contingency or 
                        operational environments; and
                            (v) other risk areas as determined 
                        appropriate.
                    (B) Characterization and monitoring of risks posed 
                by contractor behavior that constitute violations of 
                laws or regulations, including those relating to--
                            (i) fraud;
                            (ii) ownership structures;
                            (iii) trafficking in persons;
                            (iv) workers' health and safety;
                            (v) affiliation with the enemy; and
                            (vi) other risk areas as deemed 
                        appropriate.
                    (C) Characterization of the Department's 
                acquisition processes and procedures, including--
                            (i) market research;
                            (ii) responsibility determinations, 
                        including consideration of the need for special 
                        standards of responsibility to address the 
                        risks described in subparagraphs (A) and (B);
                            (iii) facilities clearances;
                            (iv) contract requirements definition and 
                        technical evaluation;
                            (v) contract awards and contractor 
                        mobilization;
                            (vi) contractor mobilization to include 
                        hiring, training, and establishing facilities;
                            (vii) contract administration, contract 
                        management, and oversight;
                            (viii) contract audit for closeout;
                            (ix) contractor business system reviews; 
                        and
                            (x) other relevant processes and 
                        procedures.
                    (D) Characterization and monitoring of the health 
                and activities of the defense industrial base, 
                including those relating to--
                            (i) balance sheets, revenues, 
                        profitability, and debt;
                            (ii) investment, innovation, and 
                        technological and manufacturing sophistication;
                            (iii) finances, access to capital markets, 
                        and cost of raising capital within those 
                        markets;
                            (iv) corporate governance, leadership, and 
                        culture of performance; and
                            (v) history of performance on past 
                        Department of Defense and government contracts.
    (c) Roles and Responsibilities.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
designate the roles and responsibilities of organizations and 
individuals to execute activities under this section, including--
            (1) the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment, including the Office of Defense Pricing and 
        Contracting and the Office of Industrial Policy;
            (2) Service Acquisition Executives;
            (3) program offices and procuring contracting officers;
            (4) administrative contracting officers within the Defense 
        Contract Management Agency and the Supervisor of Shipbuilding;
            (5) the Defense Security Service and the Defense 
        Counterintelligence Security Agency;
            (6) the Defense Contract Audit Agency;
            (7) departments, agencies, or activities which own or 
        operate systems containing data relevant to Department of 
        Defense contractors;
            (8) the Under Secretary for Research and Engineering; and
            (9) other relevant organizations and individuals.
    (d) Enabling Data, Tools, and Systems.--
            (1) Assessment of existing data sources, systems, and 
        tools.--
                    (A) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition and Sustainment, in consultation with the 
                Chief Data Officer of the Department of Defense, and 
                the Defense Security Service (or successor entity), 
                shall assess the extent to which existing systems of 
                record relevant to risk assessments and contracting are 
                producing, exposing, and timely maintaining valid and 
                reliable data for the purposes of the Department's 
                continuous assessment and mitigation of risks in the 
                defense industrial base.
                    (B) Elements.--The assessment required under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following elements:
                            (i) Identification of the necessary source 
                        data, to include data from contractors, 
                        intelligence and security activities, program 
                        offices, and commercial research entities.
                            (ii) A description of the modern data 
                        infrastructure, tools, and applications and 
                        what changes would improve the effectiveness 
                        and efficiency of mitigating the risks 
                        described in subsection (b)(2).
                            (iii) An assessment of the following 
                        systems owned or operated outside of the 
                        Department of Defense:
                                    (I) The Federal Awardee Performance 
                                and Integrity Information System 
                                (FAPIIS).
                                    (II) The System for Award 
                                Management (SAM).
                                    (III) The Federal Procurement Data 
                                System-Next Generation (FPDS-NG).
                            (iv) An assessment of systems owned or 
                        operated by the Department of Defense, 
                        including the Defense Security Service (or 
                        successor entity) and other defense agencies 
                        and field activities used to capture and 
                        analyze the performance of vendors and 
                        contractors.
            (2) Modernization of data collection, exposure, and 
        analysis methods.--Based on the findings pursuant to paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary of Defense shall develop a unified set of 
        activities to modernize the systems of record, data sources and 
        collection methods, and data exposure mechanisms. The unified 
        set of activities should feature--
                    (A) the ability to continuously collect data on, 
                assess, and mitigate risks;
                    (B) data analytics and business intelligence tools 
                and methods; and
                    (C) continuous development and continuous delivery 
                of secure software to implement the activities.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than November 15, 2019, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on actions taken pursuant to this section, 
        including recommendations for any further authorities or 
        legislation.
            (2) Second report.--Not later than April 15, 2020, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on actions taken pursuant to this section, 
        including recommendations for any further legislation.
    (f) Comptroller General Reviews.--
            (1) Briefing.--Not later than February 15, 2020, the 
        Comptroller General of the United States shall brief the 
        congressional defense committees on Department of Defense 
        efforts over the previous 5 years to continuously assess and 
        mitigate risks to the defense industrial base across the 
        acquisition process, and a summary of current and planned 
        efforts.
            (2) Annual assessments.--Not later than June 15, 2020, and 
        annually thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall submit to the congressional defense committees an 
        assessment of Department of Defense progress in implementing 
        the framework required under subsection (b).

SEC. 832. ASSESSMENT OF PRECISION-GUIDED MISSILES FOR RELIANCE ON 
              FOREIGN-MADE MICROELECTRONIC COMPONENTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than August 31, 2020, the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall brief the congressional defense committees on the 
findings of an assessment of the Air Force's precision-guided missiles 
for reliance on foreign-made microelectronic components.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) consider certain risks such as--
                    (A) where microelectronic components for all of the 
                Air Force's precision-guided missiles currently in 
                production were made;
                    (B) the contract tier level of the microelectronic 
                components supplier; and
                    (C) which of the microelectronic components are 
                cyber security concerns; and
            (2) identify mitigation strategies.

SEC. 833. MITIGATING RISKS RELATED TO FOREIGN OWNERSHIP, CONTROL, OR 
              INFLUENCE OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CONTRACTORS OR 
              SUBCONTRACTORS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Beneficial owner; beneficial ownership.--The terms 
        ``beneficial owner'' and ``beneficial ownership'' shall be 
        determined in the manner set forth in section 240.13d-3 of 
        title 17, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (2) Company.--The term ``company'' means any corporation, 
        company, limited liability company, limited partnership, 
        business trust, business association, or other similar entity.
            (3) Covered contractor or subcontractor.--The term 
        ``covered contractor or subcontractor'' means a company that is 
        an existing or prospective contractor or subcontractor of the 
        Department of Defense on a contract or subcontract with a value 
        in excess of $5,000,000, except as provided in subsection (c).
            (4) Foreign ownership, control, or influence; foci.--The 
        terms ``foreign ownership, control, or influence'' and ``FOCI'' 
        have the meanings given those terms under the policy, factors, 
        and procedures of the National Industrial Security Program 
        Operating Manual, DOD 5220.22-M, or a successor document.
    (b) Improved Assessment and Mitigation of Risks Related to Foreign 
Ownership, Control, or Influence.--
            (1) In general.--In developing and implementing the 
        analytical framework for mitigating risk relating to ownership 
        structures, as required by section 831(b)(2)(B)(ii), the 
        Secretary of Defense shall improve the process and procedures 
        for the assessment and mitigation of risks related to foreign 
        ownership, control, or influence (FOCI) of contractors and 
        subcontractors doing business with the Department of Defense.
            (2) Elements.--The process and procedures for the 
        assessment and mitigation of risk relating to ownership 
        structures referred to in paragraph (1) shall include the 
        following elements:
                    (A) Assessment of foci.--(i) A requirement for 
                covered contractors and subcontractors to disclose to 
                the Defense Security Service, or its successor 
                organization, their beneficial ownership and whether 
                they are under FOCI.
                    (ii) A requirement to update such disclosures when 
                significant changes occur to information previously 
                provided, consistent with or similar to the procedures 
                for updating FOCI information under the National 
                Industrial Security Program.
                    (iii) A requirement for covered contractors and 
                subcontractors determined to be under FOCI to disclose 
                contact information for each of its foreign owners that 
                is a beneficial owner.
                    (iv) A requirement that, at a minimum, the 
                disclosures required by this paragraph be provided at 
                the time the contract or subcontract is awarded, 
                amended, or renewed, but in no case later than one year 
                after the Secretary prescribes regulations to carry out 
                this subsection.
                    (B) Responsibility determination.--Consistent with 
                section 831(b)(2)(C)(ii), consideration of FOCI risks 
                as part of responsibility determinations, including--
                            (i) whether to establish a special standard 
                        of responsibility relating to FOCI risks for 
                        covered contractors or subcontractors, and the 
                        extent to which the policies and procedures 
                        consistent with or similar to those relating to 
                        FOCI under the National Industrial Security 
                        Program shall be applied to covered contractors 
                        or subcontractors;
                            (ii) procedures for contracting officers 
                        making responsibility determinations regarding 
                        whether covered contractors and subcontractors 
                        may be under foreign ownership, control, or 
                        influence and for determining whether there is 
                        reason to believe that such foreign ownership, 
                        control, or influence would pose a risk to 
                        national security or potential risk of 
                        compromise because of sensitive data, systems, 
                        or processes, such as personally identifiable 
                        information, cybersecurity, or national 
                        security systems involved with the contract or 
                        subcontract; and
                            (iii) modification of policies, directives, 
                        and practices to provide that an assessment 
                        that a covered contractor or subcontractor is 
                        under FOCI may be a sufficient basis for a 
                        contracting officer to determine that a 
                        contractor or subcontractor is not responsible.
                    (C) Contract requirements, administration, and 
                oversight relating to foci.--
                            (i) Requirements for contract clauses 
                        providing for and enforcing disclosures related 
                        to changes in FOCI during performance of the 
                        contract, consistent with subparagraph (A), and 
                        necessitating the effective mitigation of risks 
                        related to FOCI throughout the duration of the 
                        contract or subcontract.
                            (ii) Pursuant to section 831(c), 
                        designation of the appropriate Department of 
                        Defense official responsible to approve and to 
                        take actions relating to award, modification, 
                        termination of a contract, or direction to 
                        modify or terminate a subcontract due to an 
                        assessment by the Defense Security Service, or 
                        its successor organization, that a covered 
                        contractor or subcontractor under FOCI poses a 
                        risk to national security or potential risk of 
                        compromise.
                            (iii) A requirement for the provision of 
                        additional information regarding beneficial 
                        ownership and control of any covered contractor 
                        or subcontractor on the contract or 
                        subcontract.
                            (iv) Other measures as necessary to be 
                        consistent with other relevant practices, 
                        policies, regulations, and actions, including 
                        those under the National Industrial Security 
                        Program.
    (c) Applicability to Contracts and Subcontracts for Commercial 
Products and Services and Other Forms of Acquisition Agreements.--
            (1) Commercial products and services.--The disclosure 
        requirements under subsection (b) shall not apply to a contract 
        or subcontract for commercial products or services, unless a 
        designated senior official specifically requires the 
        disclosures described in such subparagraphs with respect to the 
        contract or subcontract based on a determination by the 
        designated senior official that the contract or subcontract 
        involves a risk to national security or potential risk of 
        compromise because of sensitive data, systems, or processes, 
        such as personally identifiable information, cybersecurity, or 
        national security systems.
            (2) Research and development and procurement activities.--
        The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the requirements of 
        this section are applied to research and development and 
        procurement activities, including for the delivery of services, 
        established through any means including those under section 
        2358(b) of title 10, United States Code.
    (d) Availability of Resources.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
sufficient resources, including subject matter expertise, are allocated 
to execute the functions necessary to carry out this section, including 
the assessment, mitigation, contract administration, and oversight 
functions.
    (e) Reporting Requirements and Limited Availability of Beneficial 
Ownership Data.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        establish a process to update systems of record to improve the 
        assessment and mitigation of risks associated with FOCI through 
        the inclusion and updating of all appropriate associated 
        uniquely identifying information about the contracts and 
        contractors and subcontracts and subcontractors in the Federal 
        Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS), 
        administered by the General Services Administration, and the 
        Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) database, administered 
        by the Defense Logistics Agency.
            (2) Limited availability of information.--The Secretary of 
        Defense shall ensure that the information required to be 
        disclosed pursuant to this subsection is--
                    (A) not made public;
                    (B) made available via the FAPIIS and CAGE 
                databases; and
                    (C) made available to appropriate government 
                departments or agencies.

SEC. 834. EXTENSION AND REVISIONS TO NEVER CONTRACT WITH THE ENEMY.

    (a) Extension.--Section 841(n) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 2023''.
    (b) Expansion of Program.--Section 841(a) of such Act is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``Identification of Persons 
        and Entities'' and inserting ``Program'';
            (2) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``establish in'' and all that follows and inserting ``establish 
        a program to mitigate threats posed by vendors supporting 
        operations outside the United States. The program shall use 
        available intelligence to identify persons and entities that--
        '';
            (3) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (4) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and inserting 
        a semicolon; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(3) directly or indirectly support a covered person or 
        entity or otherwise pose a force protection risk to personnel 
        of the United States or coalition forces; or
            ``(4) pose an unacceptable national security risk.''.
    (c) Inclusion of All Contracts.--Sections 841 and 842 of such Act 
are further amended by striking ``covered contract'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``contract''.
    (d) Inclusion of All Combatant Commands.--Sections 841 and 842 of 
such Act are further amended by striking ``covered combatant command'' 
each place it appears and inserting ``combatant command''.
    (e) Covered Person or Entity.--Section 843(6) of such Act is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(6) Covered person or entity.--The term `covered person 
        or entity' means a person that is--
                    ``(A) engaging in acts of violence against 
                personnel of the United States or coalition forces;
                    ``(B) providing financing, logistics, training, or 
                intelligence to a person described in subparagraph (A);
                    ``(C) engaging in foreign intelligence activities 
                against the United States or against coalition forces;
                    ``(D) engaging in transnational organized crime or 
                criminal activities; or
                    ``(E) engaging in other activities that present a 
                direct or indirect risk to the national security of the 
                United States or coalition forces.''.
    (f) Delegation Authority of Combatant Commander.--
            (1) Use of designees.--Sections 841 and 842 of such Act are 
        further amended by striking ``specified deputies'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``designee''.
            (2) Removal of limitations on delegation.--Section 841 of 
        such Act is further amended by striking subsection (g).
    (g) Authorities To Terminate, Void, and Restrict.--Section 841(c) 
of such Act is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by inserting ``to a person or entity'' after 
                ``concerned''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the contract'' and all that 
                follows through the period at the end and inserting 
                ``the person or entity has been identified under the 
                program established under subsection (a).'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``has failed'' and all 
        that follows and inserting ``has been identified under the 
        program established under subsection (a).''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ``the contract'' and all 
        that follows through the period at the end and inserting ``the 
        contractor, or the recipient of the grant or cooperative 
        agreement, has been identified under the program established 
        under subsection (a).''.
    (h) Contract Clause.--Section 841(d)(2)(B) of such Act is amended 
by inserting ``and restrict future award to any contractor, or 
recipient of a grant or cooperative agreement, that has been identified 
under the program established under subsection (a)'' after ``subsection 
(c)''.
    (i) Participation of Secretary of State.--Section 841 of such Act 
is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``in consultation with''; and
            (2) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``in consultation 
        with''.
    (j) Sharing of Information on Supporters of the Enemy.--Section 
841(h)(1) of such Act is further amended by striking ``may be 
providing'' and all that follows through ``or entity'' and inserting 
``have been identified under the program established under subsection 
(a)''.
    (k) Inapplicability to Certain Contracts, Grants, and Cooperative 
Agreements.--Section 841(j) of such Act is amended by striking 
``contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements'' and all that follows 
through the period at the end and inserting ``a contract, grant, or 
cooperative agreement that is performed entirely inside the United 
States unless the recipient of such contract, grant, or cooperative 
agreement is a foreign entity.''.
    (l) Construction With Other Authorities.--Section 841 of such Act 
is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (l), by striking ``Except as provided in 
        subsection (m), the'' and inserting ``The''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (m).
    (m) Additional Access to Records.--Section 842 of such Act is 
further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, except as 
                provided under subsection (c)(1),'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``ensure that 
                funds'' and all that follows through the period at the 
                end and inserting ``support the program established 
                under section 841(a).'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``that funds'' 
                and all that follows through the period at the end and 
                inserting ``that the examination of such records will 
                support the program established under section 
                841(a).''; and
                    (D) by striking paragraph (4); and
            (2) by striking subsection (c).
    (n) Reports.--Subtitle E of title VIII of such Act (10 U.S.C. 2302 
note) is further amended--
            (1) in section 841(i)(1), in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A), by striking ``2016, 2017, and 2018'' and 
        inserting ``2016 through 2023''; and
            (2) in section 842(b)(1), by striking ``2016, 2017, and 
        2018'' and inserting ``2016 through 2023''.
    (o) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section heading.--The heading of section 841 of such 
        Act is amended by striking ``providing funds to'' and inserting 
        ``supporting''.
            (2) Redesignations.--Section 841 of such Act is further 
        amended by redesignating subsections (h) through (l) and (n) 
        (as amended by subsections (a) through (n) of this section) as 
        subsections (g) through (l), respectively.
            (3) Definitions.--Section 843 of such Act is amended by 
        striking paragraphs (2) through (5) and redesignating 
        paragraphs (6) through (9) as paragraphs (2) through (5), 
        respectively.

                   Subtitle D--Small Business Matters

SEC. 841. REAUTHORIZATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              MENTOR-PROTEGE PROGRAM.

    (a) Permanent Authorization.--Section 831 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 
2302 note) is amended by striking subsection (j).
    (b) Office of Small Business Programs Oversight.--Section 831 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 
101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (n) as subsection (o); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (m) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(n) Establishment of Performance Goals and Periodic Reviews.--The 
Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of Defense shall--
            ``(1) establish performance goals consistent with the 
        stated purpose of the Mentor-Protege Program and outcome-based 
        metrics to measure progress in meeting those goals; and
            ``(2) submit to the congressional defense committees, not 
        later than February 1, 2020, a report on progress made toward 
        implementing these performance goals and metrics, based on 
        periodic reviews of the procedures used to approve mentor-
        protege agreements.''.
    (c) Modification of Disadvantaged Small Business Concern 
Definition.--Subsection (o)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), as 
redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended by 
striking ``has less than half the size standard corresponding to its 
primary North American Industry Classification System code'' and 
inserting ``is not more than the size standard corresponding to its 
primary North American Industry Classification System code''.
    (d) Removal of Pilot Program References.--Section 831 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 
101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading for subsection (a), by 
        striking ``Pilot''; and
            (2) by striking ``pilot'' each place it appears.
    (e) Independent Report on Program Effectiveness.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall direct the 
        Defense Business Board to submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report evaluating the effectiveness of the Mentor-
        Protege Program established under section 831 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-
        510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), including recommendations for 
        improving the program in terms of performance metrics, forms of 
        assistance, and overall program effectiveness not later than 
        March 31, 2022.
            (2) Congressional defense committees defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``congressional defense committees'' has 
        the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, 
        United States Code.

SEC. 842. MODIFICATION OF JUSTIFICATION AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENT FOR 
              CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CONTRACTS.

    (a) Modification of Justification and Approval Requirement.--
Notwithstanding section 811 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2405)--
            (1) no justification and approval is required under such 
        section for a sole-source contract awarded by the Department of 
        Defense in a covered procurement for an amount not exceeding 
        $100,000,000; and
            (2) for purposes of subsections (a)(2) and (c)(3)(A) of 
        such section, the appropriate official designated to approve 
        the justification for a sole-source contract awarded by the 
        Department of Defense in a covered procurement exceeding 
        $100,000,000 is the official designated in section 
        2304(f)(1)(B)(ii) of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Guidance.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance to 
implement the authority under subsection (a).
    (c) Comptroller General Review.--
            (1) Data tracking and collection.--The Department of 
        Defense shall track the use of the authority provided pursuant 
        to subsection (a) and make the data available to the 
        Comptroller General for purposes of the report required under 
        paragraph (2).
            (2) Report.--Not later than February 1, 2022, the 
        Comptroller General of the United States shall submit a report 
        to the congressional defense committees on the use of the 
        authority provided pursuant to subsection (a) through the end 
        of fiscal year 2021.

     Subtitle E--Provisions Related to Software-Driven Capabilities

SEC. 851. IMPROVED MANAGEMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND CYBERSPACE 
              INVESTMENTS.

    (a) Improved Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Chief Information Officer of the 
        Department of Defense shall work with the Chief Data Officer of 
        the Department of Defense to optimize the Department's process 
        for accounting for, managing, and reporting its information 
        technology and cyberspace investments. The optimization should 
        include alternative methods of presenting budget justification 
        materials to the public and congressional staff to more 
        accurately communicate when, how, and with what frequency 
        capability is delivered to end users, in accordance with best 
        practices for managing and reporting on information technology 
        investments.
            (2) Briefing.--Not later than February 3, 2020, the Chief 
        Information Officer of the Department of Defense shall brief 
        the congressional defense committees on the process 
        optimization undertaken pursuant to paragraph (1), including 
        any recommendations for legislation.
    (b) Delivery of Information Technology Budget.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees the 
Department of Defense budget request for information technology not 
later than 15 days after the submittal to Congress of the budget of the 
President for a fiscal year pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code.

SEC. 852. SPECIAL PATHWAYS FOR RAPID ACQUISITION OF SOFTWARE 
              APPLICATIONS AND UPGRADES.

    (a) Guidance Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish 
guidance authorizing the use of special pathways for the rapid 
acquisition of software applications and upgrades that are intended to 
be fielded within one year.
    (b) Software Acquisition Pathways.--
            (1) Use of proven technologies and solutions.--The guidance 
        required by subsection (a) shall provide for the use of proven 
        technologies and solutions to continuously engineer and deliver 
        capabilities in software.
            (2) Objectives.--The objectives of using the acquisition 
        authority under this section shall be to begin the engineering 
        of new capabilities quickly, to demonstrate viability and 
        effectiveness of those capabilities in operation, and to 
        continue updating and delivering new capabilities iteratively 
        afterwards.
            (3) Treatment not as acquisition program.--An acquisition 
        using the authority under this section shall not be treated as 
        an acquisition program for the purpose of section 2430 of title 
        10, United States Code, or Department of Defense Directive 
        5000.01 without the specific direction of the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment or a Senior 
        Acquisition Executive.
            (4) Pathways.--The guidance shall provide for the following 
        two rapid acquisition pathways:
                    (A) Applications.--The applications software 
                acquisition pathway shall provide for the use of rapid 
                development and implementation of applications and 
                other software and software improvements running on 
                commercial commodity hardware (including modified 
                hardware) operated by the Department of Defense.
                    (B) Embedded systems.--The embedded systems 
                software acquisition pathway shall provide for the 
                rapid development and insertion of upgrades and 
                improvements for software embedded in weapon systems 
                and other military-unique hardware systems.
    (c) Expedited Process.--
            (1) In general.--The guidance required by subsection (a) 
        shall provide for a streamlined and coordinated requirements, 
        budget, and acquisition process that results in the rapid 
        fielding of software applications and software upgrades to 
        embedded systems in a period of not more than one year from the 
        time that the process is initiated. It shall also require the 
        collection of data on the version fielded and continuous 
        engagement with the users of that software, so as to enable 
        engineering and delivery of additional versions in periods of 
        not more than one year each.
            (2) Expedited software requirements process.--
                    (A) Inapplicability of existing guidance.--Software 
                acquisitions conducted under the authority of this 
                provision shall not be subject to the Joint 
                Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) 
                Manual and Department of Defense Directive 5000.01, 
                except to the extent specifically provided in the 
                guidance required under subsection (a) or by the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment or 
                a Senior Acquisition Executive.
                    (B) Requirements.--The guidance required by 
                subsection (a) shall provide the following with respect 
                to requirements:
                            (i) Requirements for covered acquisitions 
                        are developed on an iterative basis through 
                        engagement with the user community, and the use 
                        of user feedback in order to regularly define 
                        and set priorities for software requirements 
                        and evaluate the software capabilities 
                        acquired.
                            (ii) The requirements process begins with 
                        the identification of the warfighter or user 
                        need, including the rationale for how these 
                        software capabilities will support increased 
                        lethality and efficiency, and the 
                        identification of a relevant user community.
                            (iii) Initial contract requirements are 
                        stated in the form of a summary-level list of 
                        problems and shortcomings in existing software 
                        systems and desired features or capabilities of 
                        new or upgraded software systems.
                            (iv) Contract requirements are continuously 
                        refined and set in priority order in an 
                        evolutionary process through discussions with 
                        users that may continue throughout the 
                        development and implementation period.
                            (v) Issues related to lifecycle costs and 
                        systems interoperability are continuously 
                        considered.
                            (vi) Issues of logistics support in cases 
                        where the software developer may stop 
                        supporting the software system are addressed.
                            (vii) Rapid contracting procedures, to 
                        include timeframes for award, contract types, 
                        teaming, and options.
                            (viii) Execution processes, including 
                        supporting development and test infrastructure, 
                        automation and tools, data collection and 
                        sharing, the role of developmental and 
                        operational testing activities, and key 
                        decisionmaking and oversight events, and 
                        supporting processes and activities such as 
                        independent costing activity, operational 
                        demonstration, and performance metrics.
                            (ix) Administrative procedures, including 
                        procedures related to the roles and 
                        responsibilities of the implementing project or 
                        product teams and supporting activities, team 
                        selection and staffing process, oversight roles 
                        and responsibilities, and appropriate 
                        independent technology assessments, testing, 
                        and cost estimation, including relevant 
                        thresholds or designation criteria.
                            (x) Mechanisms and waivers designed to 
                        ensure flexibility in the implementation of the 
                        authority, including the use of other 
                        transaction authority, broad agency 
                        announcements, and other procedures.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 861. NOTIFICATION OF NAVY PROCUREMENT PRODUCTION DISRUPTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2339b. Notification of Navy procurement production disruptions
    ``(a) Requirement for Contractor To Provide Notice of Delays.--The 
Secretary of the Navy shall require prime contractors of any Navy 
procurement program to report within 15 calendar days any stop work 
order or other manufacturing disruption of 15 calendar days or more, by 
the prime contractor or any sub-contractor, to the respective program 
manager and Navy technical authority.
    ``(b) Quarterly Reports.--The Secretary of the Navy shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees not later than 15 calendar days 
after the end of each quarter of a fiscal year a report listing all 
notifications made pursuant to subsection (a) during the preceding 
quarter.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 2339a the following new item:

``2339b. Notification of Navy procurement production disruptions.''.

SEC. 862. MODIFICATION TO ACQUISITION AUTHORITY OF THE COMMANDER OF THE 
              UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND.

    Section 807 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) is amended by 
inserting ``on new contract efforts'' after ``may not obligate or 
expend more than $75,000,000''.

SEC. 863. PROHIBITION ON OPERATION OR PROCUREMENT OF FOREIGN-MADE 
              UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.

    (a) Prohibition on Agency Operation or Procurement.--The Secretary 
of Defense may not operate or enter into or renew a contract for the 
procurement of--
            (1) a covered unmanned aircraft system that--
                    (A) is manufactured in a covered foreign country or 
                by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country;
                    (B) uses flight controllers, radios, data 
                transmission devices, cameras, or gimbals manufactured 
                in a covered foreign country or by an entity domiciled 
                in a covered foreign country;
                    (C) uses a ground control system or operating 
                software developed in a covered foreign country or by 
                an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country; or
                    (D) uses network connectivity or data storage 
                located in or administered by an entity domiciled in a 
                covered foreign country; or
            (2) a system manufactured in a covered foreign country or 
        by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country for the 
        detection or identification of covered unmanned aircraft 
        systems.
    (b) Exemption.--The Secretary of Defense is exempt from the 
restriction under subsection (a) if the operation or procurement is for 
the purposes of--
            (1) Counter-UAS surrogate testing and training; or
            (2) intelligence, electronic warfare, and information 
        warfare operations, testing, analysis, and training.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the restriction 
under subsection (a) on a case by case basis by certifying in writing 
to the congressional defense committees that the operation or 
procurement is required in the national interest of the United States.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered foreign country.--The term ``covered foreign 
        country'' means the People's Republic of China.
            (2) Covered unmanned aircraft system.--The term ``covered 
        unmanned aircraft system'' means an unmanned aircraft system 
        and any related services and equipment.

SEC. 864. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH PERSONS THAT HAVE BUSINESS 
              OPERATIONS WITH THE MADURO REGIME.

    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided under subsections (c), (d), 
and (e), the Department of Defense may not enter into a contract for 
the procurement of goods or services with any person that has business 
operations with an authority of the Government of Venezuela that is not 
recognized as the legitimate Government of Venezuela by the United 
States Government.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Business operations.--The term ``business operations'' 
        means engaging in commerce in any form, including acquiring, 
        developing, maintaining, owning, selling, possessing, leasing, 
        or operating equipment, facilities, personnel, products, 
        services, personal property, real property, or any other 
        apparatus of business or commerce.
            (2) Government of venezuela.--(A) The term ``Government of 
        Venezuela'' includes the government of any political 
        subdivision of Venezuela, and any agency or instrumentality of 
        the Government of Venezuela.
            (B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term ``agency or 
        instrumentality of the Government of Venezuela'' means an 
        agency or instrumentality of a foreign state as defined in 
        section 1603(b) of title 28, United States Code, with each 
        reference in such section to ``a foreign state'' deemed to be a 
        reference to ``Venezuela''.
            (3) Person.--The term ``person'' means--
                    (A) a natural person, corporation, company, 
                business association, partnership, society, trust, or 
                any other nongovernmental entity, organization, or 
                group;
                    (B) any governmental entity or instrumentality of a 
                government, including a multilateral development 
                institution (as defined in section 1701(c)(3) of the 
                International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 
                262r(c)(3))); and
                    (C) any successor, subunit, parent entity, or 
                subsidiary of, or any entity under common ownership or 
                control with, any entity described in subparagraph (A) 
                or (B).
    (c) Exceptions.--
            (1) In general.--The prohibition under subsection (a) does 
        not apply to a contract that the Secretary of Defense 
        determines--
                    (A) is necessary--
                            (i) for purposes of providing humanitarian 
                        assistance to the people of Venezuela;
                            (ii) for purposes of providing disaster 
                        relief and other urgent life-saving measures;
                            (iii) to carry out noncombatant 
                        evacuations; or
                            (iv) to carry out stabilization activities; 
                        or
                    (B) is vital to the national security interests of 
                the United States.
            (2) Notification requirement.--The Secretary of Defense 
        shall notify the congressional defense committees of any 
        contract entered into on the basis of an exception provided for 
        under paragraph (1).
    (d) Office of Foreign Assets Control Licenses.--The prohibition in 
subsection (a) shall not apply to a person that has a valid license to 
operate in Venezuela issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
    (e) American Diplomatic Mission in Venezuela.--The prohibition in 
subsection (a) shall not apply to contracts related to the operation 
and maintenance of the United States Government's consular offices and 
diplomatic posts in Venezuela.
    (f) Applicability.--This section shall apply with respect to any 
contract entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this 
section.

SEC. 865. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE EFFORTS TO COMBAT HUMAN TRAFFICKING THROUGH 
              PROCUREMENT PRACTICES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
Department of Defense efforts to combat human trafficking.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
evaluate--
            (1) the efforts of the Department of Defense to combat 
        human trafficking in its contracting and supply chain policy, 
        regulation, and practices, to include implementation of title 
        XVII of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2092) and Executive Order 
        13627 (77 Fed. Reg. 60029), as well as the nature and extent of 
        training for Department of Defense contract officers on how to 
        evaluate compliance plans, monitor contractor adherence to the 
        plans, and respond to reports of noncompliance;
            (2) the role of the current trafficking in person's office 
        within the Department of Defense in helping the Department 
        address all forms of human trafficking, and what, if any, 
        improvements should be made to the office;
            (3) the process used by contract officers to evaluate 
        compliance plans with regards to preventing human trafficking; 
        and
            (4) how many instances of human trafficking have been 
        reported to the Inspector General of the Department of Defense 
        and the outcome of those cases.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section 
, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        the Judiciary of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

SEC. 901. HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MATTERS.

    (a) Assessment and Reform of Enterprise Business Operations.--
Subsection (b) of section 921 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 
2222 note) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Assessment and Reform of Enterprise Business Operations.--
            ``(1) Periodic assessments and actions.--Not later than 
        January 1, 2020, and not less frequently than once every five 
        years thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall, acting 
        through the Chief Management Officer of the Department of 
        Defense--
                    ``(A) assess enterprise business operations of the 
                Department of Defense across all organizations and 
                elements of the Department; and
                    ``(B) take or direct the taking of such actions as 
                will minimize the duplication of efforts and maximize 
                efficiency and effectiveness in mission execution.
            ``(2) CMO reports.--Not later than January 1 of every fifth 
        calendar year beginning with January 1, 2025, the Chief 
        Management Officer shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report that describes the assessments carried out 
        and the actions taken by the Chief Management Officer, and by 
        other officers or employees of the Department at the direction 
        of the Chief Management Office, under this subsection during 
        the preceding five years, including the following:
                    ``(A) A description of the metrics for performance 
                relating to minimization of duplication of efforts and 
                maximization of efficiency and effectiveness in mission 
                execution established for applicable organizations and 
                elements of the Department.
                    ``(B) A certification of any costs avoided or cost 
                savings achieved as a result of such assessments and 
                actions.''.
    (b) Report on Military and Civilian Personnel for the NGB and 
National Guard Joint Staff.--Not later than January 1, 2020, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report setting forth the following:
            (1) The total number of members of the Armed Forces and 
        civilian employees of the Department of Defense assigned to the 
        Office of the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and the 
        National Guard Joint Staff.
            (2) A recommendation for the total number of members and 
        employees required for the Office of the Chief of the National 
        Guard Bureau and the National Guard Joint Staff to execute the 
        missions and functions of the National Guard Bureau and the 
        National Guard Joint Staff.
    (c) Repeal of Superseded Limitations.--The following provisions are 
repealed:
            (1) Section 601 of the Goldwater-Nichols Department of 
        Defense Reorganization Act of 1986 (10 U.S.C. 194 note).
            (2) Section 1111 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (10 U.S.C. 143 note).
    (d) Modification of Limitations on Number of Personnel in OSD and 
Other DoD Headquarters.--
            (1) OSD.--Section 143 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``3,767'' and 
                inserting ``4,000''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``, civilian, 
                and detailed personnel'' and inserting ``and civilian 
                personnel''.
            (2) Joint staff.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 155(h) of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2,069'' 
                        and inserting ``2,250''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                        ``1,500'' and inserting ``1,600''.
                    (B) Effective date.--The amendments made by 
                subparagraph (A) shall take effect on December 31, 
                2019, immediately after the coming into effect of the 
                amendment made by section 903(b) of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public 
                Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2344), to which such amendments 
                relate
            (3) Office of secretary of the army.--Section 7014(f) of 
        title 10, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``3,105'' and 
                inserting ``3,250''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``1,865'' and 
                inserting ``1,900''.
            (4) Office of secretary of the navy.--Section 8014(f) of 
        such title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2,866'' and 
                inserting ``3,000''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``1,720'' and 
                inserting ``1,800''.
            (5) Office of secretary of the air force.--Section 9014(f) 
        of such title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2,639'' and 
                inserting ``2,750''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``1,585'' and 
                inserting ``1,650''.
    (e) Sunset of Reduction in Funding for DoD Headquarters, 
Administrative, and Support Activities.--Section 346 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 111 note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Sunset.--No action is required under this section with 
respect to any fiscal year after fiscal year 2019.''.

SEC. 902. RESPONSIBILITY OF UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR ACQUISITION 
              AND SUSTAINMENT FOR PROCUREMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 
              COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 2411(3) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``Secretary of Defense acting through the 
Director of the Defense Logistics Agency'' and inserting ``Secretary of 
Defense acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment''.
    (b) Authority to Pay Administrative and Other Costs.--Section 2417 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``Director of 
the Defense Logistics Agency'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.

SEC. 903. RETURN TO CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR BUSINESS SYSTEMS AND 
              RELATED MATTERS.

    (a) Return of Responsibility.--
            (1) In general.--Section 142(b)(1) of title 10, United 
        States Code, is amended by striking ``systems and'' each place 
        it appears in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C).
            (2) Conforming amendments to cmo authorities.--Section 
        132a(b) of such title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``performance 
                measurement and management, and business information 
                technology management and improvement activities and 
                programs'' and inserting ``and performance measurement 
                and management activities and programs'';
                    (B) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5); and
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as 
                paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively.
    (b) Chief Data Officer Responsibility for DoD Data Sets.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to any other functions and 
        responsibilities specified in section 3520(c) of title 44, 
        United States, Code, the Chief Data Officer of the Department 
        of Defense shall also be the official in the Department of 
        Defense with principal responsibility for providing for the 
        availability of common, usable, Defense-wide data sets.
            (2) Access to all dod data.--In order to carry out the 
        responsibility specified in paragraph (1), the Chief Data 
        Officer shall have access to all Department of Defense data, 
        including data in connection with warfighting missions and 
        back-office data.
            (3) Responsible to cio.--The Chief Data Officer shall 
        report directly to the Chief Information Officer of the 
        Department of Defense in the performance of the responsibility 
        specified in paragraph (1).
            (4) Report.--Not later than December 1, 2019, the Secretary 
        of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
        the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting 
        forth such recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action as the Secretary considers appropriate to carry out this 
        subsection.

SEC. 904. SENIOR MILITARY ADVISOR FOR CYBER POLICY AND DEPUTY PRINCIPAL 
              CYBER ADVISOR.

    (a) Advisor.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy 
        shall, acting through the Joint Staff, designate an officer 
        within the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy 
        to serve within that Office as the Senior Military Advisor for 
        Cyber Policy, and concurrently, as the Deputy Principal Cyber 
        Advisor.
            (2) Officers eligible for designation.--The officer 
        designated pursuant to this subsection shall be designated from 
        among commissioned regular officers of the Armed Forces in a 
        general or flag officer grade who are qualified for designation
            (3) Grade.--The officer designated pursuant to this 
        subsection shall have the grade of major general or rear 
        admiral while serving in that position, without vacating the 
        officer's permanent grade.
    (b) Scope of Positions.--
            (1) In general.--The officer designated pursuant to 
        subsection (a) is each of the following:
                    (A) The Senior Military Advisor for Cyber Policy to 
                the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
                    (B) The Deputy Principal Cyber Advisor to the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Policy.
            (2) Direction and control and reporting.--In carrying out 
        duties under this section, the officer designed pursuant to 
        subsection (a) shall be subject to the authority, direction, 
        and control of, and shall report directly to, the following:
                    (A) The Under Secretary with respect to Senior 
                Military Advisor for Cyber Policy duties.
                    (B) The Principal Cyber Advisor with respect to 
                Deputy Principal Cyber Advisor duties.
    (c) Duties.--
            (1) Duties as senior military advisor for cyber policy.--
        The duties of the officer designated pursuant to subsection (a) 
        as Senior Military Advisor for Cyber Policy are as follows:
                    (A) To serve as the principal uniformed military 
                advisor on military cyber forces and activities to the 
                Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
                    (B) To assess and advise the Under Secretary on 
                aspects of policy relating to military cyberspace 
                operations, resources, personnel, cyber force 
                readiness, cyber workforce development, and defense of 
                Department of Defense networks.
                    (C) To advocate, in consultation with the Joint 
                Staff, and senior officers of the Armed Forces and the 
                combatant commands, for consideration of military 
                issues within the Office of the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Policy, including coordination and 
                synchronization of Department cyber forces and 
                activities.
                    (D) To maintain open lines of communication between 
                the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
                Defense, senior civilian leaders within the Office of 
                the Under Secretary, and senior officers on the Joint 
                Staff, the Armed Forces, and the combatant commands on 
                cyber matters, and to ensure that military leaders are 
                informed on cyber policy decisions.
            (2) Duties as deputy principal cyber advisor.--The duties 
        of the officer designated pursuant to subsection (a) as Deputy 
        Principal Cyber Advisor are as follows:
                    (A) To synchronize, coordinate, and oversee 
                implementation of the Cyber Strategy of the Department 
                of Defense and other relevant policy and planning.
                    (B) To advise the Secretary of Defense on cyber 
                programs, projects, and activities of the Department, 
                including with respect to policy, training, resources, 
                personnel, manpower, and acquisitions and technology.
                    (C) To oversee implementation of Department policy 
                and operational directives on cyber programs, projects, 
                and activities, including with respect to resources, 
                personnel, manpower, and acquisitions and technology.
                    (D) To assist in the overall supervision of 
                Department cyber activities relating to offensive 
                missions.
                    (E) To assist in the overall supervision of 
                Department defensive cyber operations, including 
                activities of component-level cybersecurity service 
                providers and the integration of such activities with 
                activities of the Cyber Mission Force.
                    (F) To advise senior leadership of the Department 
                on, and advocate for, investment in capabilities to 
                execute Department missions in and through cyberspace.
                    (G) To identify shortfalls in capabilities to 
                conduct Department missions in and through cyberspace, 
                and make recommendations on addressing such shortfalls 
                in the Program Budget Review process.
                    (H) To coordinate and consult with stakeholders in 
                the cyberspace domain across the Department in order to 
                identify other issues on cyberspace for the attention 
                of senior leadership of the Department.
                    (I) On behalf of the Principal Cyber Advisor, to 
                lead the cross-functional team established pursuant to 
                932(c)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
                Fiscal Year 2014 (10 U.S.C. 2224 note) in order to 
                synchronize and coordinate military and civilian cyber 
                forces and activities of the Department.

SEC. 905. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF STRATEGIC CAPABILITIES OFFICE.

    (a) Limitation.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering may not transfer the Strategic Capabilities Office or 
change the reporting structure of the Office, as in effect on the day 
before the date of the enactment of this Act, until the Secretary of 
Defense, acting through the Chief Management Officer and the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and in consultation 
with the United States Indo-Pacific, Europe, and Special Operations 
Command, submits the report required by subsection (b)(1).
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report that evaluates the 
        following options for transferring the Office:
                    (A) Transferring the Office so that the Director of 
                the Office reports directly to the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
                    (B) Maintaining the arrangement in effect on the 
                day before the date of the enactment of this Act such 
                that the Director continues to report to the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
                    (C) Transferring the Office to the Defense Advanced 
                Research Projects Agency.
                    (D) Such other options as the Under Secretary may 
                identify.
            (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include, for each option evaluated under such paragraph, 
        an evaluation of whether the option considered will provide 
        for--
                    (A) responding to the critical needs of combatant 
                commanders;
                    (B) augmentation of cross-Department of Defense 
                efforts with respect to developing strategic 
                capabilities;
                    (C) developing new and innovative ways to counter 
                advanced threats;
                    (D) providing sound technical and program 
                management for activities of the Strategic Capabilities 
                Office;
                    (E) coordinating appropriately with other research 
                and technology development activities of the 
                Department; and
                    (F) partnering with and responding to senior 
                leadership across the Department.

Subtitle B--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

SEC. 911. ASSISTANT SECRETARIES OF THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS FOR ENERGY, 
              INSTALLATIONS, AND ENVIRONMENT.

    (a) Assistant Secretary of the Army.--Section 7016(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(6) One of the Assistant Secretaries shall be the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army for Energy, Installations, and Environment.''.
    (b) Assistant Secretary of the Navy.--Section 8016(b) of such title 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) One of the Assistant Secretaries shall be the Assistant 
Secretary of the Navy for Energy, Installations, and Environment.''.
    (c) Assistant Secretary of the Air Force.--Section 9016(b) of such 
title is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) One of the Assistant Secretaries shall be the Assistant 
Secretary of the Air Force for Energy, Installations, and 
Environment.''.

SEC. 912. REPEAL OF CONDITIONAL DESIGNATION OF EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE 
              DISPOSAL CORPS AS A BASIC BRANCH OF THE ARMY.

    Section 582 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1415) is repealed, and the 
amendment otherwise provided for by subsection (a) of that section 
shall not be made.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 921. EXCLUSION FROM LIMITATIONS ON PERSONNEL IN THE OFFICE OF THE 
              SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              HEADQUARTERS OF FELLOWS APPOINTED UNDER THE JOHN S. 
              MCCAIN DEFENSE FELLOWS PROGRAM.

    Section 932(f)(3) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
1935; 10 U.S.C. prec. 1580 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new sentence: ``An individual appointed pursuant to this 
paragraph shall not count against the limitation on the number of 
Office of the Secretary of Defense personnel in section 143 of title 
10, United States Code, or any similar limitation in law on the number 
of personnel in headquarters of the Department that would otherwise 
apply to the office or headquarters to which appointed.''.

SEC. 922. REPORT ON RESOURCES TO IMPLEMENT THE CIVILIAN CASUALTY POLICY 
              OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report, in unclassified form, on the resources necessary 
over the period of the future-years defense plan for fiscal year 2020 
under section 221 of title United States Code, to fulfill the 
requirements of section 936 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232l 132 Stat. 
1939; 10 U.S.C. 134 note) and fully implement policies developed as a 
result of such section.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--
            (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
        Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, 
        the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made 
        available to the Department of Defense in this division for 
        fiscal year 2020 between any such authorizations for that 
        fiscal year (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of 
        authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be 
        available for the same purposes as the authorization to which 
        transferred.
            (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
        total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer 
        under the authority of this section may not exceed 
        $4,000,000,000.
            (3) Exception for transfers between military personnel 
        authorizations.--A transfer of funds between military personnel 
        authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the 
        dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
    (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by subsection (a) to 
transfer authorizations--
            (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that 
        have a higher priority than the items from which authority is 
        transferred; and
            (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that 
        has been denied authorization by Congress.
    (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from one 
account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed 
to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount 
is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
    (d) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly notify 
Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).

SEC. 1002. MODIFICATION OF REQUIRED ELEMENTS OF ANNUAL REPORTS ON 
              EMERGENCY AND EXTRAORDINARY EXPENSES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE.

    Paragraph (2) of section 127(d) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(2) Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include, for 
each individual expenditure covered by such report in an amount in 
excess of $20,000, the following:
            ``(A) A detailed description of the purpose of such 
        expenditure.
            ``(B) The amount of such expenditure.
            ``(C) An identification of the approving authority for such 
        expenditure.
            ``(D) A justification why other authorities available to 
        the Department could not be used for such expenditure.
            ``(E) Any other matters the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.''.

SEC. 1003. INCLUSION OF MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS IN ANNUAL 
              REPORTS ON UNFUNDED PRIORITIES OF THE ARMED FORCES AND 
              THE COMBATANT COMMANDS.

    (a) Inclusion of Military Construction Projects Among Unfunded 
Priorities.--Subsection (d) of section 222a of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting ``, 
including a military construction project,'' after ``program, activity, 
or mission requirement''.
    (b) Order of Urgency of Priority.--Paragraph (2) of subsection (c) 
of such section is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Prioritization of priorities.--Each report shall 
        present the unfunded priorities covered by such report as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) In overall order of urgency of priority.
                    ``(B) In overall order of urgency of priority among 
                unfunded priorities (other than military construction 
                projects).
                    ``(C) In overall order of urgency of priority among 
                military construction projects.''.

SEC. 1004. PROHIBITION ON DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR SUBMITTAL TO 
              CONGRESS OF OUT-YEAR UNCONSTRAINED TOTAL MUNITIONS 
              REQUIREMENTS AND OUT-YEAR INVENTORY NUMBERS.

    Section 222c of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``subsection (b)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (c)'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), and (d) as 
        subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection (b):
    ``(b) Prohibition on Delegation of Submittal Responsibility.--The 
responsibility of the chief of staff of an armed force in subsection 
(a) to submit a report may not be delegated outside the armed force 
concerned.''; and
            (4) in subsection (c), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
        striking ``subsection (c)'' in paragraph (6) and inserting 
        ``subsection (d)''.

SEC. 1005. ELEMENT IN ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENT AND 
              AUDIT REMEDIATION PLAN ON ACTIVITIES WITH RESPECT TO 
              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.

    Section 240b(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by adding at the end the following 
        new clause:
                            ``(ix) A description of audit activities 
                        and results for classified programs, including 
                        a description of the use of procedures and 
                        requirements to prevent unauthorized exposure 
                        of classified information in such 
                        activities.''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (C)(i), by inserting ``or (ix)'' after 
        ``clause (vii)''.

SEC. 1006. MODIFICATION OF SEMIANNUAL BRIEFINGS ON THE CONSOLIDATED 
              CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR 
              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INFORMATION.

    (a) In General.--Paragraph (2) of section 240b(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended to read as following:
            ``(2) Semiannual briefings.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than February 28 and 
                September 30 each year, the Under Secretary of Defense 
                (Comptroller) and the comptrollers of the military 
                departments shall provide a briefing to the 
                congressional defense committees on the status of the 
                consolidated corrective action plan referred to in 
                paragraph (1)(B)(i) as of the end of the most recent 
                calendar half-year ending before such briefing.
                    ``(B) Elements.--Each briefing under subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            ``(i) The absolute number, and the 
                        percentage, of personnel performing the amount 
                        of auditing or audit remediation services being 
                        performed by professionals meeting the 
                        qualifications described in section 240d(b) of 
                        this title as of the last day of the calendar 
                        half-year covered by such briefing.
                            ``(ii) With respect to each finding and 
                        recommendation issued in connection with the 
                        audit of the financial statements of a 
                        department, agency, component, or other element 
                        of the Department of Defense, or the Department 
                        of Defense as a whole, that was received by the 
                        Department during the calendar half-year 
                        covered by such briefing, each of the 
                        following:
                                    ``(I) A description of the manner 
                                in which the corrective action plan of 
                                such department, agency, component, or 
                                element and the corrective action plan 
                                of the Department as a whole, or the 
                                corrective action plan of the 
                                Department as a whole (in the case of a 
                                finding or recommendation regarding the 
                                Department as a whole), has been 
                                modified in order to incorporate such 
                                finding or recommendation into such 
                                plans or plan.
                                    ``(II) An identification of the 
                                processes, systems, procedures, and 
                                technologies required to implement such 
                                corrective action plans or plan, as so 
                                modified.
                                    ``(III) A determination of the 
                                funds required to procure, obtain, or 
                                otherwise implement each process, 
                                system, and technology identified 
                                pursuant to subclause (II).
                                    ``(IV) An identification the manner 
                                in which such corrective action plans 
                                or plan, as so modified, support the 
                                National Defense Strategy (NDS) of the 
                                United States.''.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--Paragraph (1)(B)(i) of such section is 
amended by striking ``section 253a'' and inserting ``section 240c''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply 
with respect to calender half-years that end on or after that date.

SEC. 1007. UPDATE OF AUTHORITIES AND RENAMING OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT FUND.

    (a) Renaming as Account.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1705 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``the 
                `Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
                Development Fund' (in this section referred to as the 
                `Fund')'' and inserting ``the `Department of Defense 
                Acquisition Workforce Development Account' (in this 
                section referred to as the `Account')''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Fund'' each place it appears 
                (other than subsection (e)(6)) and inserting 
                ``Account''.
            (2) Conforming and clerical amendments.--
                    (A) Section heading.--The heading of such section 
                is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1705. Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development 
              Account''.
                    (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of subchapter I of chapter 87 of such 
                title is amended by striking the item relating to 
                section 1705 and inserting the following new item:

``1705. Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development 
                            Account.''.
    (b) Management.--Such section is further amended by striking 
``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics'' each place it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
    (c) Appropriations as Sole Elements of Account.--Subsection (d) of 
such section is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Elements.--The Account shall consist of amounts appropriated 
to the Account by law.''.
    (d) Availability of Amounts in Account.--Subsection (e)(6) of such 
section is amended by striking ``credited to the Fund'' and all that 
follows and inserting ``appropriated to the Account pursuant to 
subsection (d) shall remain available for expenditure for the fiscal 
year in which appropriated and the succeeding fiscal year.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        take effect on October 1, 2019, and shall apply with respect to 
        fiscal years that begin on or after that date.
            (2) Duration of availability of previously deposited 
        funds.--Nothing in the amendments made by this section shall 
        modify the duration of availability of amounts in the 
        Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund 
        that were appropriated or credited to, or deposited, in the 
        Fund, before October 1, 2019, as provided for in section 
        1705(e)(6) of title 10, United States Code, as in effect on the 
        day before such date.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

SEC. 1011. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT A UNIFIED COUNTERDRUG 
              AND COUNTERTERRORISM CAMPAIGN IN COLOMBIA.

    Section 1021(a)(1) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 Stat. 
2042), as most recently amended by section 1011(1) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 
Stat. 1545), is further amended by striking ``organizations designated 
as'' and all that follows and inserting ``terrorist organizations or 
other illegally armed groups that the Secretary of Defense, with the 
concurrence of the Secretary of State, determines pose a threat to the 
national security interests of the United States.''.

SEC. 1012. TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT TASK FORCES TO 
              PROVIDE SUPPORT TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES CONDUCTING 
              COUNTER-TERRORISM ACTIVITIES.

    Section 1022(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2004 (10 U.S.C. 271 note) is amended by striking ``2020'' 
and inserting ``2022''.

                Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

SEC. 1016. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE VESSELS USING FUNDS IN 
              NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND.

    (a) In General.--Section 2218(f)(3)(E) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``ten new sealift vessels'' 
        and inserting ``ten new vessels that are sealift vessels, 
        auxiliary vessels, or a combination of such vessels''; and
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``sealift''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2019, and shall apply with respect to fiscal 
years beginning on or after that date.

SEC. 1017. SENIOR TECHNICAL AUTHORITY FOR EACH NAVAL VESSEL CLASS.

    (a) Senior Technical Authority for Each Class Required.--Chapter 
863 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
section 8669a the following new section:
``Sec. 8669b. Senior Technical Authority for each naval vessel class
    ``(a) Senior Technical Authority.--
            ``(1) Designation for each vessel class required.--The 
        Secretary of the Navy shall designate, in writing, a Senior 
        Technical Authority for each class of naval vessels as follows:
                    ``(A) In the case of a class of vessels which has 
                received Milestone A approval, an approval to enter 
                into technology maturation and risk reduction, or an 
                approval to enter into a subsequent Department of 
                Defense or Department of the Navy acquisition phase as 
                of the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, not later than 
                30 days after such date of enactment.
                    ``(B) In the case of any class of vessels which has 
                not received any approval described in subparagraph (A) 
                as of such date of enactment, at or before the first of 
                such approvals.
            ``(2) Prohibition on delegation.--The Secretary may not 
        delegate designations under paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Individuals eligible for designation.--Each 
        individual designated as a Senior Technical Authority under 
        paragraph (1) shall be an employee of the Navy in the Senior 
        Executive Service in an organization of the Navy that--
                    ``(A) possesses the technical expertise required to 
                carry out the responsibilities specified in subsection 
                (b); and
                    ``(B) operates independently of chains-of-command 
                for acquisition program management.
            ``(4) Term.--Each Senior Technical Authority shall be 
        designated for a term, not fewer than six years, specified by 
        the Secretary at the time of designation.
            ``(5) Removal.--An individual may be removed involuntarily 
        from designation as a Senior Technical Authority only by the 
        Secretary. Not later than 15 days after the involuntary removal 
        of an individual from designation as a Senior Technical 
        Authority, the Secretary shall notify, in writing, the 
        congressional defense committees of the removal, including the 
        reasons for the removal.
    ``(b) Responsibilities and Authority.--Each Senior Technical 
Authority shall be responsible for, and have the authority to, 
establish, monitor, and approve technical standards, tools, and 
processes for the class of naval vessels for which designated under 
this section in conformance with applicable Department of Defense and 
Department of the Navy policies, requirements, architectures, and 
standards.
    ``(c) Limitation on Obligation of Funds on Lead Vessel in Vessel 
Class.--
            ``(1) In general.--On or after October 1, 2020, funds 
        authorized to be appropriated for Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy or Other Procurement, Navy may not be obligated for the 
        first time on the lead vessel in a class of naval vessels 
        unless the Secretary of the Navy certifies as described in 
        paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Certification elements.--The certification on a class 
        of naval vessels described in this paragraph is a certification 
        containing each of the following:
                    ``(A) The name of the individual designated as the 
                Senior Technical Authority for such class of vessels, 
                and the qualifications and professional biography of 
                the individual so designated.
                    ``(B) A description by the Senior Technical 
                Authority of the systems engineering, technology, and 
                ship integration risks for such class of vessels.
                    ``(C) The designation by the Senior Technical 
                Authority of each critical hull, mechanical, 
                electrical, propulsion, and combat system of such class 
                of vessels, including systems relating to power 
                generation, power distribution, and key operational 
                mission areas.
                    ``(D) The date on which the Senior Technical 
                Authority approved the systems engineering, engineering 
                development, and land-based engineering and testing 
                plans for such class of vessels.
                    ``(E) A description by the Senior Technical 
                Authority of the key technical knowledge objectives and 
                demonstrated system performance of each plan approved 
                as described in subparagraph (D).
                    ``(F) A determination by the Senior Technical 
                Authority that such plans are sufficient to achieve 
                thorough technical knowledge of critical systems of 
                such class of vessels before the start of detail design 
                and construction.
                    ``(G) A determination by the Senior Technical 
                Authority that actual execution of activities in 
                support of such plans as of the date of the 
                certification have been and continue to be effective 
                and supportive of the acquisition schedule for such 
                class of vessels.
                    ``(H) A description by the Senior Technical 
                Authority of other technology maturation and risk 
                reduction efforts not included in such plans for such 
                class of vessels taken as of the date of the 
                certification.
                    ``(I) A certification by the Senior Technical 
                Authority that each critical system covered by 
                subparagraph (C) has been demonstrated through testing 
                of a prototype or identical component in its final 
                form, fit, and function in a realistic environment.
                    ``(J) A determination by the Secretary that the 
                plans approved as described in subparagraph (D) are 
                fully funded and will be fully funded in the future-
                years defense program for the fiscal year beginning in 
                the year in which the certification is submitted.
                    ``(K) A determination by the Secretary that the 
                Senior Technical Authority will approve, in writing, 
                the ship specification for such class of vessels before 
                the request for proposals for detail design, 
                construction, or both, as applicable, is released.
            ``(3) Deadline for submittal of certification.--The 
        certification required by this subsection with respect to a 
        class of naval vessels shall be submitted, in writing, to the 
        congressional defense committees not fewer than 30 days before 
        the Secretary obligates for the first time funds authorized to 
        be appropriated for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy or Other 
        Procurement, Navy for the lead vessel in such class of naval 
        vessels.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `class of naval vessels'--
                    ``(A) means any group of similar undersea or 
                surface craft procured with Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy or Other Procurement, Navy funds, 
                including manned, unmanned, and optionally-manned 
                craft; and
                    ``(B) includes--
                            ``(i) a substantially new class of craft 
                        (including craft procured using `new start' 
                        procurement); and
                            ``(ii) a class of craft undergoing a 
                        significant incremental change in its existing 
                        class (such as a next `flight' of destroyers or 
                        next `block' of attack submarines).
            ``(2) The term `future-years defense program' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 221 of this title.
            ``(3) The term `Milestone A approval' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 2431a of this title.''
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 863 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 8669a the following new item:

``8669b. Senior Technical Authority for each naval vessel class.''.

SEC. 1018. PERMANENT AUTHORITY FOR SUSTAINING OPERATIONAL READINESS OF 
              LITTORAL COMBAT SHIPS ON EXTENDED DEPLOYMENT.

    Section 8680(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subparagraph (D).

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

SEC. 1021. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
              RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
              STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO THE UNITED STATES.

    Section 1033 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.

SEC. 1022. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR 
              MODIFY FACILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES TO HOUSE DETAINEES 
              TRANSFERRED FROM UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO 
              BAY, CUBA.

    Section 1034(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.

SEC. 1023. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
              RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
              STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES.

    Section 1035 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-232) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.

SEC. 1024. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CLOSE OR 
              RELINQUISH CONTROL OF UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, 
              GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

    Section 1036 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1551), as amended by section 
1032 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further amended by striking 
``or 2019'' and inserting ``, 2019, or 2020''.

SEC. 1025. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES 
              NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO THE UNITED STATES 
              TEMPORARILY FOR EMERGENCY OR CRITICAL MEDICAL TREATMENT.

    (a) Temporary Transfer for Medical Treatment.--Notwithstanding 
section 1033 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), or any similar provision of 
law enacted after September 30, 2015, the Secretary of Defense may, 
after consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, temporarily 
transfer an individual detained at Guantanamo to a Department of 
Defense medical facility in the United States for the sole purpose of 
providing the individual medical treatment if the Secretary of Defense 
determines that--
            (1) the medical treatment of the individual is necessary to 
        prevent death or imminent significant injury or harm to the 
        health of the individual;
            (2) the necessary medical treatment is not available to be 
        provided at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
        without incurring excessive and unreasonable costs; and
            (3) the Department of Defense has provided for appropriate 
        security measures for the custody and control of the individual 
        during any period in which the individual is temporarily in the 
        United States under this section.
    (b) Limitation on Exercise of Authority.--The authority of the 
Secretary of Defense under subsection (a) may be exercised only by the 
Secretary of Defense or another official of the Department of Defense 
at the level of Under Secretary of Defense or higher.
    (c) Conditions of Transfer.--An individual who is temporarily 
transferred under the authority in subsection (a) shall--
            (1) while in the United States, remain in the custody and 
        control of the Secretary of Defense at all times; and
            (2) be returned to United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
        Bay, Cuba, as soon as feasible after a Department of Defense 
        physician determines, in consultation with the Commander, Joint 
        Task Force-Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, that any necessary follow-up 
        medical care may reasonably be provided the individual at 
        United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay.
    (d) Status While in United States.--An individual who is 
temporarily transferred under the authority in subsection (a), while in 
the United States--
            (1) shall be deemed at all times and in all respects to be 
        in the uninterrupted custody of the Secretary of Defense, as 
        though the individual remained physically at United States 
        Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba;
            (2) shall not at any time be subject to, and may not apply 
        for or obtain, or be deemed to enjoy, any right, privilege, 
        status, benefit, or eligibility for any benefit under any 
        provision of the immigration laws (as defined in section 
        101(a)(17) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
        1101(a)(17)), or any other law or regulation;
            (3) shall not be permitted to avail himself of any right, 
        privilege, or benefit of any law of the United States beyond 
        those available to individuals detained at United States Naval 
        Station, Guantanamo Bay; and
            (4) shall not, as a result of such transfer, have a change 
        in any designation that may have attached to that detainee 
        while detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
        pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public 
        Law 107-40), as determined in accordance with applicable law 
        and regulations.
    (e) No Cause of Action.--Any decision to transfer or not to 
transfer an individual made under the authority in subsection (a) shall 
not give rise to any claim or cause of action.
    (f) Limitation on Judicial Review.--
            (1) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), no 
        court, justice, or judge shall have jurisdiction to hear or 
        consider any claim or action against the United States or its 
        departments, agencies, officers, employees, or agents arising 
        from or relating to any aspect of the detention, transfer, 
        treatment, or conditions of confinement of an individual 
        transferred under this section.
            (2) Exception for habeas corpus.--The United States 
        District Court for the District of Columbia shall have 
        exclusive jurisdiction to consider an application for writ of 
        habeas corpus seeking release from custody filed by or on 
        behalf of an individual who is in the United States pursuant to 
        a temporary transfer under the authority in subsection (a). 
        Such jurisdiction shall be limited to that required by the 
        Constitution, and relief shall be only as provided in paragraph 
        (3). In such a proceeding the court may not review, halt, or 
        stay the return of the individual who is the object of the 
        application to United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
        Cuba, pursuant to subsection (c).
            (3) Relief.--A court order in a proceeding covered by 
        paragraph (2)--
                    (A) may not order the release of the individual 
                within the United States; and
                    (B) shall be limited to an order of release from 
                custody which, when final, the Secretary of Defense 
                shall implement in accordance with section 1034 of the 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
                (10 U.S.C. 801 note).
    (g) Notification.--Whenever a temporary transfer of an individual 
detained at Guantanamo is made under the authority of subsection (a), 
the Secretary of Defense shall notify the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the transfer not 
later than five days after the date on which the transfer is made.
    (h) Individual Detained at Guantanamo Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' means an individual 
located at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as of 
October 1, 2009, who--
            (1) is not a national of the United States (as defined in 
        section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
        U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)) or a member of the Armed Forces of the 
        United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the control of the 
                Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise detained at United States Naval 
                Station, Guantanamo Bay.
    (i) Applicability.--This section shall apply to an individual 
temporarily transferred under the authority in subsection (a) 
regardless of the status of any pending or completed proceeding or 
detention on the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1026. CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, 
              GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

    (a) Chief Medical Officer.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be at United States Naval 
        Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a Chief Medical Officer of 
        United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay (in this section 
        referred to as the ``Chief Medical Officer'').
            (2) Grade.--The individual serving as Chief Medical Officer 
        shall be an officer of the Armed Forces who holds a grade not 
        below the grade of colonel, or captain in the Navy.
            (3) Chain of command.--The Chief Medical Officer shall 
        report to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs 
        in the performance of duties and the exercise of powers of the 
        Chief Medical Officer under this section.
    (b) Duties.--
            (1) In general.--The Chief Medical Officer shall oversee 
        the provision of medical care to individuals detained at 
        Guantanamo.
            (2) Quality of care.--The Chief Medical Officer shall 
        ensure that medical care provided as described in paragraph (1) 
        meets applicable standards of care.
    (c) Powers.--
            (1) In general.--The Chief Medical Officer shall make 
        medical determinations relating to medical care for individuals 
        detained at Guantanamo, including--
                    (A) decisions regarding assessment, diagnosis, and 
                treatment; and
                    (B) determinations concerning medical 
                accommodations to living conditions and operating 
                procedures for detention facilities.
            (2) Resolution of declination to follow determinations.--If 
        the commander of Joint Task Force Guantanamo declines to follow 
        a determination of the Chief Medical Officer under paragraph 
        (1), the matter covered by such determination shall be jointly 
        resolved by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special 
        Operations and Low Intensity Conflict and the Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs not later than seven 
        days after receipt of notification of the matter by either 
        Assistant Secretary.
            (3) Security clearances.--The appropriate departments or 
        agencies of the Federal Government shall, to the extent 
        practicable in accordance with existing procedures and 
        requirements, process expeditiously any application and 
        adjudication for a security clearance required by the Chief 
        Medical Officer to carry out the Chief Medical Officer's duties 
        and powers under this section.
    (d) Access to Individuals, Information, and Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--The Chief Medical Officer may secure 
        directly from the Department of Defense access to any 
        individual, information, or assistance that the Chief Medical 
        Officer considers necessary to enable the Chief Medical Officer 
        to carry out this section, including full access to the 
        following:
                    (A) Any individual detained at Guantanamo.
                    (B) Any medical records of any individual detained 
                at Guantanamo.
                    (C) Medical professionals of the Department who are 
                working, or have worked, at United States Naval 
                Station, Guantanamo Bay.
            (2) Access upon request.--Upon request of the Chief Medical 
        Officer, the Department shall make available to the Chief 
        Medical Officer on an expeditious basis access to individuals, 
        information, and assistance as described in paragraph (1).
            (3) Lack of expeditious availability.--If access to 
        individuals, information, or assistance is not made available 
        to the Chief Medical Officer upon request on an expeditious 
        basis as required by paragraph (2), the Chief Medical Officer 
        shall notify the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health 
        Affairs, who shall take actions to resolve the matter 
        expeditiously.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Individual detained at guantanamo defined.--The term 
        ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' means an individual 
        located at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
        as of October 1, 2009, who--
                    (A) is not a national of the United States (as 
                defined in section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)) or a member of 
                the Armed Forces of the United States; and
                    (B) is--
                            (i) in the custody or under the control of 
                        the Department of Defense; or
                            (ii) otherwise detained at United States 
                        Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay.
            (2) Medical care.--The term ``medical care'' means physical 
        and mental health care.
            (3) Standard of care.--The term ``standard of care'' means 
        evaluation and treatment that is accepted by medical experts 
        and reflected in peer-reviewed medical literature as the 
        appropriate medical approach for a condition, symptoms, 
        illness, or disease and that is widely used by healthcare 
        professionals.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

SEC. 1031. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF MILITARY COMMISSIONS UNDER 
              CHAPTER 47A OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, TO PUNISH 
              CONTEMPT.

    (a) Clarification.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter IV of chapter 47A of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new section:
``Sec. 949o-1. Contempt
    ``(a) Authority to Punish.--(1) With respect to any proceeding 
under this chapter, a judicial officer specified in paragraph (2) may 
punish for contempt any person who--
            ``(A) uses any menacing word, sign, or gesture in the 
        presence of the judicial officer during the proceeding;
            ``(B) disturbs the proceeding by any riot or disorder; or
            ``(C) willfully disobeys a lawful writ, process, order, 
        rule, decree, or command issued with respect to the proceeding.
    ``(2) A judicial officer referred to in paragraph (1) is any of the 
following:
            ``(A) Any judge of the United States Court of Military 
        Commission Review.
            ``(B) Any military judge detailed to a military commission 
        or any other proceeding under this chapter.
    ``(b) Punishment.--The punishment for contempt under subsection (a) 
may not exceed confinement for 30 days, a fine of $1,000, or both.
    ``(c) Review.--(1) A punishment under this section--
            ``(A) is not reviewable by the convening authority of a 
        military commission under this chapter;
            ``(B) if imposed by a military judge, shall constitute a 
        judgment, subject to review in the first instance only by the 
        United States Court of Military Commission Review and then only 
        by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of 
        Columbia Circuit; and
            ``(C) if imposed by a judge of the United States Court of 
        Military Commission Review, shall constitute a judgment of the 
        court subject to review only by the United States Court of 
        Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
    ``(2) In reviewing a punishment for contempt imposed under this 
section, the reviewing court shall affirm such punishment unless the 
court finds that imposing such punishment was an abuse of the 
discretion of the judicial officer who imposed such punishment.
    ``(3) A petition for review of punishment for contempt imposed 
under this section shall be filed not later than 60 days after the date 
on which the authenticated record upon which the contempt punishment is 
based and any contempt proceedings conducted by the judicial officer 
are served on the person punished for contempt.
    ``(d) Punishment Not Conviction.--Punishment for contempt is not a 
conviction or sentence within the meaning of section 949m of this 
title. The imposition of punishment for contempt is not governed by 
other provisions of this chapter applicable to military commissions, 
except that the Secretary of Defense may prescribe procedures for 
contempt proceedings and punishments, pursuant to the authority 
provided in section 949a of this title.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter IV of such chapter is amended by adding 
        at the end the following new item:

``949o-1. Contempt.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 950t of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (31); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (32) as paragraph (31).
    (c) Rule of Construction.--The amendments made by subsections (a) 
and (b) shall not be construed to affect the lawfulness of any 
punishment for contempt adjudged prior to the effective date of such 
amendments.
    (d) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall 
apply with respect to conduct by a person that occurs on or after such 
date.

SEC. 1032. COMPREHENSIVE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICY ON COLLECTIVE 
              SELF-DEFENSE.

    (a) Comprehensive Policy Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
prescribe a comprehensive written policy for the Department of Defense 
on the issuance of authorization for, and the provision by members and 
units of the United States Armed Forces of, collective self-defense to 
designated foreign nationals, their facilities, and their property.
    (b) Elements.--The policy required by subsection (a) shall address 
the following:
            (1) Each basis under domestic and international law 
        pursuant to which a member or unit of the United States Armed 
        Forces has been or may be authorized to provide collective 
        self-defense to designated foreign nationals, their facilities, 
        or their property under each circumstance as follows:
                    (A) Inside an area of active hostilities, or in a 
                country or territory in which United States forces are 
                authorized to conduct or support direct action 
                operations.
                    (B) Outside an area of active hostilities, or in a 
                country or territory in which United States forces are 
                not authorized to conduct direct action military 
                operations.
                    (C) When United States personnel, facilities, or 
                equipment are not threatened, including both as 
                described in subparagraph (A) and as described in 
                subparagraph (B).
                    (D) When members of the United States Armed Forces 
                are not participating in a military operation as part 
                of an international coalition.
                    (E) Any other circumstance not encompassed by 
                subparagraphs (A) through (D) in which a member or unit 
                of the United States Armed Forces has been or may be 
                authorized to provide such collective self-defense.
            (2) A list and explanation of any limitations imposed by 
        law or policy on the provision of collective self-defense to 
        designated foreign nationals, their facilities, and their 
        property under any of the bases in domestic or international 
        law in the circumstances enumerated in paragraph (1), and the 
        conditions under which any such limitation applies.
            (3) The procedure by which a proposal that any member or 
        unit of the United States Armed Forces provide collective self-
        defense in support of designated foreign nationals, their 
        facilities, and their property is to be submitted, processed, 
        and endorsed through offices, officers, and officials of the 
        Department to the applicable approval authority for final 
        decision, and a list of any information, advice, or opinion to 
        be included with such proposal in order to inform appropriate 
        action on such proposal by such approval authority.
            (4) The title and duty position of any officers and 
        officials of the Department empowered to render a final 
        decision on a proposal described in paragraph (3), and the 
        conditions applicable to, and limitations on, the exercise of 
        such decisionmaking authority by each such officer or official.
            (5) A description of the Rules of Engagement applicable to 
        the provision of collective self-defense to designated foreign 
        nationals, their facilities, and their property under any of 
        the bases in domestic or international law in the circumstances 
        enumerated in paragraph (1), and the conditions under which any 
        such Rules of Engagement would be modified.
            (6) A description of the process through which policy 
        guidance pertaining to the authorization for, and the provision 
        by members of the United States Armed Forces of, collective 
        self-defense to designated foreign nationals, their facilities, 
        and their property is to be disseminated to the level of 
        tactical execution.
            (7) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Report on Policy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report setting forth the 
        policy required by subsection (a).
            (2) DoD general counsel statement.--The Secretary shall 
        include in the report under paragraph (1) a statement by the 
        General Counsel of the Department of Defense as to whether the 
        policy prescribed pursuant to subsection (a) is consistent with 
        domestic and international law.
            (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) may be 
        submitted in classified form.
    (d) Briefing on Policy.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the submittal of the report required by subsection (c), the Secretary 
shall provide the congressional defense committees a classified 
briefing on the policy prescribed pursuant to subsection (a). The 
briefing shall make use of vignettes designated to illustrate real 
world application of the policy in each the circumstances enumerated in 
subsection (b)(1).

SEC. 1033. OVERSIGHT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXECUTE ORDERS.

    (a) Review of Execute Orders.--Upon a written request by the 
Chairman or Ranking Member of a congressional defense committee, the 
Secretary of Defense shall provide the committee, including 
appropriately designated staff of the committee, with an execute order 
approved by the Secretary or the commander of a combatant command for 
reveiw within 30 days of receiving the written request.
    (b) Exception.--
            (1) In general.--In extraordinary circumstances necessary 
        to protect operations security, the sensitivity of the execute 
        order, or other appropriate considerations, the Secretary may 
        limit review of an execute order.
            (2) Summary and other information.--In extraordinary 
        circumstances described in paragraph (1) with respect to an 
        execute order, the Secretary shall provide the committee 
        concerned, including appropriately designated staff of the 
        committee, a detailed summary of the execute order and other 
        information necessary for the conduct of the oversight duties 
        of the committee within 30 days of receiving the written 
        request under subsection (a).

SEC. 1034. PROHIBITION ON OWNERSHIP OR TRADING OF STOCKS IN CERTAIN 
              COMPANIES BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OFFICERS AND 
              EMPLOYEES.

    (a) Prohibition on Ownership and Trading by Certain Senior 
Officials.--
            (1) Prohibition.--An official of the Department of Defense 
        described in paragraph (2) may not own or trade a publicly 
        traded stock of a company if, during the preceding calendar 
        year, the company received more than $1,000,000,000 in revenue 
        from the Department of Defense, including through one or more 
        contracts with the Department.
            (2) Department of defense officials.--An official of the 
        Department of Defense described in this paragraph is any 
        current Department of Defense official described by section 
        847(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2008 (10 U.S.C. 1701 note).
            (3) Administrative actions.--In the event that an official 
        of the Department of Defense described in subsection (a) 
        knowingly fails to comply with the requirements of this 
        subsection, the Secretary of Defense may take administrative 
        action against the official, including suspension or 
        termination, in accordance with the procedures otherwise 
        applicable to administrative actions against such officials.
    (b) Prohibition on Ownership and Trading by All Officers and 
Employees.--An officer or employee of the Department of Defense may not 
own or trade a publicly traded stock of a company that is a contractor 
or subcontractor of the Department if the Office of Standards and 
Compliance of the Office of the General Counsel of the Department of 
Defense determines that the value of the stock may be directly or 
indirectly influenced by any official action of the officer or employee 
for the Department.
    (c) Inapplicability to Mutual Funds.--For purposes of this section, 
publically-traded stock does not include a widely-held investment fund 
described in section 102(f)(8) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 
(5 U.S.C. App.).

SEC. 1035. POLICY REGARDING THE TRANSITION OF DATA AND APPLICATIONS TO 
              THE CLOUD.

    (a) Policy Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officer of the Department 
of Defense and the Chief Data Officer of the Department shall, in 
consultation with the J6 of the Joint Staff and the Chief Management 
Officer, develop and issue enterprise-wide policy and implementing 
instructions regarding the transition of data and applications to the 
cloud under the Department cloud strategy in accordance with subsection 
(b).
    (b) Design.--The policy required by subsection (a) shall be 
designed to dramatically improve support to operational missions and 
management processes, including by the use of artificial intelligence 
and machine learning technologies, by--
            (1) making the data of the Department available to support 
        new types of analyses;
            (2) preventing, to the maximum extent practicable, the 
        replication in the cloud of data stores that cannot readily be 
        accessed by applications for which the data stores were not 
        originally engineered;
            (3) ensuring that data sets can be readily discovered and 
        combined with others to enable new insights and capabilities; 
        and
            (4) ensuring that data and applications are readily 
        portable and not tightly coupled to a specific cloud 
        infrastructure or platform.

SEC. 1036. MODERNIZATION OF INSPECTION AUTHORITIES APPLICABLE TO THE 
              NATIONAL GUARD AND EXTENSION OF INSPECTION AUTHORITY TO 
              THE CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU.

    (a) Modernization of Inspection Authorities of Secretaries of the 
Army and Air Force.--Subsection (a) of section 105 of title 32, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``by him, the Secretary of the Army 
                shall have'' and inserting ``by such Secretary, the 
                Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Air 
                Force shall each have'';
                    (B) by striking ``, if necessary,''; and
                    (C) by striking ``the Regular Army'' and inserting 
                ``the Regular Army or the Regular Air Force'';
            (2) by striking ``Army National Guard'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Army National Guard or Air National 
        Guard''; and
            (3) by striking the flush matter following paragraph (7).
    (b) Inspection Authority of Chief of the National Guard Bureau.--
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c) Under regulations prescribed by the Chief of the National 
Guard Bureau, the Chief of the National Guard Bureau may have an 
inspection made by inspectors general, or by commissioned officers of 
the Army National Guard of the United States or the Air National Guard 
of the United States detailed for that purpose, in order to determine 
the following:
            ``(1) Whether the units and members of the Army National 
        Guard comply with Federal law and policy applicable to the 
        National Guard, including policies issued by the Department of 
        Defense, the Department of the Army, and the National Guard 
        Bureau.
            ``(2) Whether the units and members of the Air National 
        Guard comply with Federal law and policy applicable to the 
        National Guard, including policies issued by the Department of 
        Defense, the Department of the Air Force, and the National 
        Guard Bureau.''.

SEC. 1037. ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITIES ON FORFEITURE OF FEDERAL BENEFITS 
              BY THE NATIONAL GUARD.

    (a) In General.--The text of section 108 of title 32, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Availability of Funds Contingent on Compliance With Federal 
Law and Policy.--The availability of Federal funds provided to the 
National Guard of individual States is contingent upon compliance with 
Federal law and policy applicable to the National Guard.
    ``(b) Bar of States for Failure To Comply.--If, within a time fixed 
by the President, a State fails to comply with Federal law or policy 
applicable to the National Guard, a requirement of this title, or a 
regulation prescribed under this title, the National Guard of that 
State is barred, in whole or in part (as the President may prescribe), 
from receiving such money or other aid, benefit, or privilege 
authorized by law with respect to the National Guard of that State as 
the President may prescribe.
    ``(c) Bar or Withdrawal of Recognition of Officers for Failure To 
Comply.--If, within a time fixed by the President, an officer of the 
National Guard fails to comply with Federal law or policy applicable to 
the National Guard, the President may bar the officer from receiving 
Federal funds, or withdraw the officer's Federal recognition under 
section 323 of this title.
    ``(d) Bar or Withdrawal of Recognition of Units for Failure To 
Comply.--If, within a time fixed by the President, a unit of the 
National Guard fails to comply with Federal law or policy applicable to 
the National Guard, the President may bar the unit from receiving 
Federal funds, or withdraw the unit's Federal recognition.
    ``(e) Advance Notice to Congress on Final Actions.--Before taking a 
final action under subsection (c) or (d), President shall notify the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives of such final action.
    ``(f) Limitation on Delegation of Final Actions.--The President may 
not delegate the authority to take a final action under subsection (c) 
or (d) to any official other than the Secretary of Defense.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2019, and shall apply with respect to amounts 
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years that begin on or after 
that date.

SEC. 1038. MODERNIZATION OF AUTHORITIES ON PROPERTY AND FISCAL OFFICERS 
              OF THE NATIONAL GUARD.

    (a) Property and Fiscal Officer for Each State From NGB.--Section 
708 of title 32, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following 
        new subsection (a):
    ``(a) Property and Fiscal Officer for Each State.--(1) The Chief of 
the National Guard Bureau shall assign, designate, or detail, subject 
to the approval of the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the 
Air Force, as applicable, a qualified commissioned officer ordered to 
active duty in the National Guard Bureau under section 12402(a) of 
title 10 to be the property and fiscal officer of each State, 
Territory, and the District of Columbia.
    ``(2)(A) An officer may not be assigned, designated, or detailed as 
the property and fiscal officer of a State, Territory, or the District 
of Columbia under paragraph (1) if the officer has served within such 
jurisdiction during the 36 months preceding such assignment, 
designation, or detail.
    ``(B) The Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Air Force 
may waive the applicability of subparagraph (A) to the assignment, 
designation, or detail of a particular officer if such Secretary 
considers the waiver to be in the best interests of the State, 
Territory, or District of Columbia, as applicable, concerned.
    ``(3) An officer assigned, designated, or detailed as a property 
and fiscal officer under paragraph (1) shall, while so serving as such 
an officer, serve in a grade commensurate with the functions and 
responsibilities of the officer, but not above the grade of colonel.''; 
and
            (2) by striking subsection (d).
    (b) Support Staff.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (c) and (d), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a), as amended by 
        subsection (a) of this section, the following new subsection 
        (b):
    ``(b) Support Staff.--The Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall 
assign, designate, or detail other personnel of the National Guard 
Bureau to serve as the Federal support staff for the property and 
fiscal officer for the National Guard of each State, Territory, or the 
District of Columbia under subsection (a).''.
    (c) Responsibilities.--Subsection (c) of such section, as 
redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``Responsibilities of Officers.--'' after 
        ``(c)'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``he'' and inserting 
        ``such officer''; and
            (3) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, the Chief of Staff 
        of the Army or the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (as 
        applicable), or the Chief of the National Guard Bureau'' before 
        the period at the end.
    (d) Other Matters.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (d), as redesignated by 
        subsection (b)(1) of this section; and
            (2) by striking subsection (e).
    (e) Intrustment of Monies.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (d); and
            (2) in subsection (d), as so redesignated--
                    (A) by inserting ``Intrustment of Monies.--'' after 
                ``(d)'';
                    (B) by striking ``an officer'' and inserting ``a 
                Federally recognized officer'';
                    (C) by striking ``him'' and inserting ``such agent 
                officer''; and
                    (D) by striking ``he'' and inserting ``the agent 
                officer''.

SEC. 1039. LIMITATION ON PLACEMENT BY THE UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE 
              FOR PERSONNEL AND READINESS OF WORK WITH FEDERALLY FUNDED 
              RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.

    (a) Limitation.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness may not place any work with a federally funded research and 
development center (FFRDC) until the Under Secretary submits to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on all studies, reports, and other analyses 
being undertaken for the Under Secretary as of the date of the report 
by federally funded research and development centers.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall set 
forth the following:
            (1) A list of each study, report, and analysis described by 
        subsection (a).
            (2) For each study, report, or analysis, the following:
                    (A) Title.
                    (B) Federally funded research and development 
                center undertaking.
                    (C) Amount of contract.
                    (D) Anticipated completion date.

SEC. 1040. TERMINATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              FACILITY ACCESS CLEARANCES FOR JOINT VENTURES COMPOSED OF 
              PREVIOUSLY-CLEARED ENTITIES.

    A clearance for access to a Department of Defense installation or 
facility may not be required for a joint venture if that joint venture 
is composed entirely of entities that are currently cleared for access 
to such installation or facility.

SEC. 1041. DESIGNATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STRATEGIC ARCTIC PORTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The strategic importance of the Arctic continues to 
        increase as the United States and other countries recognize the 
        military significance of the sea lanes and choke points within 
        the region and understand the potential for power projection 
        from the Arctic into multiple regions.
            (2) On January 19, 2018, Secretary of Defense James Mattis 
        released the document titled ``2018 National Defense Strategy 
        of the United States of America'' in which the Secretary 
        outlined the reemergence of long-term, strategic competition by 
        countries classified by the National Security Strategy as 
        revisionist powers.
            (3) Russia and China have conducted military exercises 
        together in the Arctic, have agreed to connect the Northern Sea 
        Route, claimed by Russia, with China's Maritime Silk Road, and 
        are working together in developing natural gas resources in the 
        Arctic.
            (4) The Government of the Russian Federation--
                    (A) has prioritized the development of Arctic 
                capabilities and has made significant investments in 
                military infrastructure in the Arctic, including the 
                creation of a new Arctic Command and the construction 
                or refurbishment of 16 deepwater ports and 14 airfields 
                in the region;
                    (B) has approximately 40 icebreakers as of May 
                2019, including several nuclear-powered icebreakers, is 
                currently constructing four icebreakers, and is 
                planning to build an additional eight icebreakers; and
                    (C) conducted the largest military exercise since 
                the 1980s, Vostok 2018, which included--
                            (i) 300,000 troops;
                            (ii) 1,000 aircraft;
                            (iii) 80 ships;
                            (iv) 36,000 vehicles; and
                            (v) notably, 3,200 Chinese troops, 30 
                        Chinese rotary and fixed-wing aircraft, and 900 
                        Chinese tanks.
            (5) The Government of the People's Republic of China--
                    (A) released, in January 2018, its new Arctic 
                Strategy, the Polar Silk Road, in which it declares 
                itself as a ``near-Arctic state'', even though its 
                nearest territory to the Arctic is 900 miles away;
                    (B) has publicly stated that it seeks to expand its 
                ``Belt and Road Initiative'' to the Arctic region, 
                including current investment in the natural gas fields 
                in the Yamal Peninsula in Russia, rare-earth element 
                mines in Greenland, and the real estate, alternative 
                energy, and fisheries in Iceland; and
                    (C) has shown great interest in expanding its 
                Arctic presence, including through--
                            (i) the operation of research vessels in 
                        the region;
                            (ii) the recent construction of the Xuelong 
                        2, or Snow Dragon II, the only polar research 
                        boat vessel in the world that can break ice 
                        while going forward or backward;
                            (iii) a freedom of navigation operation in 
                        the Aleutian Islands in 2015; and
                            (iv) its recent plans to develop a 33,000 
                        ton nuclear-powered icebreaker.
            (6) The economic significance of the Arctic continues to 
        grow as countries around the globe begin to understand the 
        potential for maritime transportation through, and economic and 
        trade development in, the region.
            (7) The Arctic is home to 13 percent of the world's 
        undiscovered oil, 30 percent of its undiscovered gas, an 
        abundance of uranium, rare earth minerals, gold, diamonds, and 
        millions of square miles of untapped resources, including 
        abundant fisheries.
            (8) The Bering Strait is experiencing significant increases 
        in international traffic from vessels transiting the Northern 
        Sea Route, increases which are projected to continue if 
        decreases in sea ice coverage continue.
            (9) Along a future ice-free Arctic shipping route, a ship 
        sailing from South Korea to Germany would have an average 
        travel time of just 23 days, compared to 34 days via the Suez 
        Canal and 46 days via the Cape of Good Hope.
            (10) In a speech at the Arctic Forum in September 2011, 
        Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin highlighted the 
        Northern Sea Route as a potential alternative to the Suez Canal 
        and has publicly stated plans to invest $11,400,000,000 along 
        the Northern Sea Route by 2024.
            (11) Increases in human, maritime, and resource development 
        activity in the Arctic region are expected to create additional 
        mission requirements for the Department of Defense and the 
        Department of Homeland Security, given--
                    (A) the strategic focus of the Government of the 
                Russian Federation and the Government of the People's 
                Republic of China on the Arctic;
                    (B) overlapping territorial claims; and
                    (C) the potential for maritime accidents, oil 
                spills, and illegal fishing near the exclusive economic 
                zone of the United States.
            (12) The increasing role of the United States in the Arctic 
        has been highlighted in each of the last four National Defense 
        Authorization Acts.
            (13) Section 1068 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 992) 
        required a new Department of Defense strategy to protect United 
        States national security interests in the Arctic region.
            (14) Section 1095 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2438) 
        required the Department of Defense to create criteria to 
        designate a Department of Defense Strategic Arctic Port.
            (15) Section 122 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1310) 
        authorized the procurement of one polar-class heavy icebreaker 
        vessel.
            (16) Section 151 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) 
        authorized the procurement of five additional polar-class 
        icebreaker vessels and expressed that the Coast Guard should--
                    (A) maintain an inventory of not fewer than six 
                polar-class icebreaker vessels;
                    (B) award a contract for the first new polar-class 
                icebreaker not later than fiscal year 2019 and deliver 
                the icebreaker not later than fiscal year 2023; and
                    (C) deliver the second through sixth polar-class 
                icebreakers at a rate of one vessel per year in fiscal 
                years 2025 through 2029.
            (17) In January 2017, the Department of Defense released a 
        report entitled ``Report to Congress on Strategy to Protect 
        United States National Security Interests in the Arctic 
        Region'' to update ``the ways and means'' the Department of 
        Defense intends to use to achieve its objectives as it 
        implements the 2013 National Strategy for the Arctic Region, 
        including--
                    (A) enhancing the capability of United States 
                forces to defend the homeland and exercise sovereignty;
                    (B) strengthening deterrence at home and abroad;
                    (C) preserving freedom of the seas in the Arctic; 
                and
                    (D) evolving the infrastructure and capabilities of 
                the Department in the Arctic consistent with changing 
                conditions and needs.
            (18) The United States Coast Guard Arctic Strategic Outlook 
        released in April 2019 states, ``Demonstrating commitment to 
        operational presence, Canada, Denmark, and Norway have made 
        strategic investments in ice-capable patrol ships charged with 
        national or homeland security missions. [The United States] is 
        the only Arctic State that has not made similar investments in 
        ice-capable surface maritime security assets. This limits the 
        ability of the Coast Guard, and the Nation, to credibly uphold 
        sovereignty or respond to contingencies in the Arctic''.
            (19) On January 12, 2017, Secretary of Defense James Mattis 
        stated, ``The Arctic is key strategic terrain . . . Russia is 
        taking aggressive steps to increase its presence there . . . I 
        will prioritize the development of an integrated strategy for 
        the Arctic. I believe that our interests and the security of 
        the Arctic would benefit from increasing the focus of the 
        Department of Defense on this region''.
            (20) On January 9, 2019, Secretary of the Air Force Heather 
        Wilson and Chief of Staff of the Air Force General David 
        Goldfein wrote, ``. . . the Arctic has become even more 
        important to the nation. Both a northern approach to the United 
        States, as well as a critical location for projecting American 
        power, its geo-strategic significance is difficult to 
        overstate''.
            (21) On February 26, 2019, General John Hyten, Commander of 
        the United States Strategic Command, stated, ``In particular, 
        the Arctic is an area that we really need to focus on and 
        really look at investing. That is no longer a buffer zone. We 
        need to be able to operate there. We need to be able to 
        communicate there. We need to have a presence there that we 
        have not invested in in the same way that our adversaries have. 
        And they see that as a vulnerability from us, whereas it is 
        becoming a strength for them and it is a weakness for us, we 
        need to flip that equation''.
            (22) On February 26, 2019, General Terrence O'Shaughnessy, 
        Commander of the United States Northern Command stated, ``It 
        has become clear that defense of the homeland depends on our 
        ability to detect and defeat threats operating both in the 
        Arctic and passing through the Arctic. Russia's fielding of 
        advanced, long-range cruise missiles capable of flying through 
        the northern approaches and striking targets in the United 
        States and Canada has emerged as the dominant military threat 
        in the Arctic. . . . Meanwhile, China has declared that it is 
        not content to remain a mere observer in the Arctic and has 
        taken action to normalize its naval and commercial presence in 
        the region in order to increase its access to lucrative 
        resources and shipping routes. I view the Arctic as the front 
        line in the defense of the United States and Canada . . .''.
            (23) On May 6, 2019, Admiral Karl Schultz, Commandant of 
        the Coast Guard stated, ``We talk about the Arctic as a 
        competitive space. We've seen China, we see Russia investing 
        extensively. China built icebreakers in the time since we 
        updated our strategy. China's been operating off the Alaskan 
        Arctic for a good part of the last six years on an annual 
        basis. [The Coast Guard is] championing increased capabilities 
        in the Arctic . . . better communications, better domain 
        awareness . . . . I want to see the Arctic remain a peaceful 
        domain. China's a self-declared Arctic state. They're not one 
        of the eight Arctic nations, so for me, for the service, its 
        presence equals influence''.
            (24) On May 6, 2019, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo stated 
        that--
                    (A) the Arctic ``has become an arena for power and 
                for competition'', and the United States is ``entering 
                a new age of strategic engagement in the Arctic, 
                complete with new threats to the Arctic and its real 
                estate, and to all of our interests in that region.'';
                    (B) ``Arctic sea lanes could become the 21st 
                century Suez and Panama Canals.'';
                    (C) ``We're concerned about Russia's claim over the 
                international waters of the Northern Sea Route, 
                including its newly announced plans to connect it with 
                China's Maritime Silk Road.'';
                    (D) ``In the Northern Sea Route, Moscow already 
                illegally demands other nations request permission to 
                pass, requires Russian maritime pilots to be aboard 
                foreign ships, and threatens to use military force to 
                sink any that fail to comply with their demands.'';
                    (E) there is a ``pattern of aggressive Russian 
                behavior here in the Arctic'' and ``we know Russian 
                territorial ambitions can turn violent''; and
                    (F) we do not want ``the Arctic Ocean to transform 
                into a new South China Sea, fraught with militarization 
                and competing territorial claims'', nor do we want 
                ``the fragile Arctic environment exposed to the same 
                ecological devastation caused by China's fishing fleet 
                in the seas off its coast, or unregulated industrial 
                activity in its own country''.
            (25) On December 6, 2018, Secretary of the Navy Richard 
        Spencer stated, ``We need to have a strategic Arctic port up in 
        Alaska. We need to be doing FONOPs in the northwest - in the 
        northern passage. . . . peace through presence with a submarine 
        is a little tough''.
            (26) Meanwhile, the two closest strategic seaports, as 
        designated by the Department of Defense, to the Arctic Circle 
        are the Port of Anchorage and the Port of Tacoma, located 
        approximately 1,500 nautical miles and 2,400 nautical miles 
        away, respectively, and approximately 1,900 nautical miles and 
        2,800 nautical miles respectively from Barrow, Alaska.
            (27) The distance from Bangor, Maine, to Key West, Florida, 
        is approximately 1,450 nautical miles.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Arctic is a region of strategic importance to the 
        national security interests of the United States and the 
        Department of Defense must better align its presence, force 
        posture, and capabilities to meet the growing array of 
        challenges in the region; and
            (2) although much progress has been made to increase 
        awareness of Arctic issues and to promote increased presence in 
        the region, additional measures, including the designation of 
        one or more strategic Arctic ports, are needed to show the 
        commitment of the United States to this emerging strategic 
        choke point of future great power competition.
    (c) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
        the Commanding General of the United States Army Corps of 
        Engineers, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, and the 
        Administrator of the Maritime Administration, shall submit to 
        the congressional defense committees a report evaluating 
        potential sites for one or more strategic ports in the Arctic.
            (2) Elements.--Consistent with the updated military 
        strategy for the protection of United States national security 
        interests in the Arctic region set forth in the report required 
        under section 1068 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 992), the 
        report required under paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) an evaluation of the amount of sufficient and 
                suitable space needed to create capacity for port and 
                other necessary infrastructure for at least one of each 
                of type of Navy or Coast Guard vessel, including an 
                Arleigh Burke class destroyer of the Navy, a national 
                security cutter, and a heavy polar ice breaker of the 
                Coast Guard;
                    (B) an evaluation of the amount of sufficient and 
                suitable space needed to create capacity for equipment 
                and fuel storage, technological infrastructure, and 
                civil infrastructure to support military and civilian 
                operations, including--
                            (i) aerospace warning;
                            (ii) maritime surface and subsurface 
                        warning;
                            (iii) maritime control and defense;
                            (iv) maritime domain awareness;
                            (v) homeland defense;
                            (vi) defense support to civil authorities;
                            (vii) humanitarian relief;
                            (viii) search and rescue;
                            (ix) disaster relief;
                            (x) oil spill response;
                            (xi) medical stabilization and evacuation; 
                        and
                            (xii) meteorological measurements and 
                        forecasting;
                    (C) an identification of proximity and road access 
                required to an airport designated as a commercial 
                service airport by the Federal Aviation Administration 
                that is capable of supporting military and civilian 
                aircraft for operations designated in subparagraph (B);
                    (D) a description of the requirements, to include 
                infrastructure and installations, communications, and 
                logistics necessary to improve response effectiveness 
                to support military and civilian operations described 
                in subparagraph (B);
                    (E) an identification of the sites that the 
                Secretary recommends as potential sites for designation 
                as Department of Defense Strategic Arctic Ports;
                    (F) the estimated cost of sufficient construction 
                necessary to initiate and sustain expected operations 
                at such sites; and
                    (G) such other information as the Secretary deems 
                relevant.
    (d) Designation of Strategic Arctic Ports.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date on which the report required under subsection (c) is 
submitted, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commanding General of the United 
States Army Corps of Engineers, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, and 
the Administrator of the Maritime Administration, shall designate one 
or more ports as Department of Defense Strategic Arctic Ports from the 
sites identified under subsection (c)(2)(E).
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to authorize any additional appropriations for the Department of 
Defense for the establishment of any port designated pursuant to this 
section.
    (f) Arctic Defined.--In this section, the term ``Arctic'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 112 of the Arctic Research and 
Policy Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4111).

SEC. 1042. EXTENSION OF NATIONAL SECURITY COMMISSION ON ARTIFICIAL 
              INTELLIGENCE.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (e) of section 1051 of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1962) is amended by striking ``October 1, 2020'' 
and inserting ``March 1, 2021''.
    (b) Reports.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Not later than 180 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting 
        ``Not later than August 1, 2019'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(2) Interim reports.--Not later than each of December 1, 
        2019, and December 1, 2020, the Commission shall submit as 
        described in that paragraph an interim report on the review 
        required under subsection (b).
            ``(3) Final report.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the 
        Commission shall submit as described in paragraph (1) a 
        comprehensive final report on the review required under 
        subsection (b).''.

SEC. 1043. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER FUNDS FOR BIEN HOA DIOXIN CLEANUP.

    (a) Transfer Authority.--Notwithstanding section 2215 of title 10, 
United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may transfer to the 
Secretary of State, for use by the United States Agency for 
International Development, amounts to be used for the Bien Hoa dioxin 
cleanup in Vietnam.
    (b) Limitation on Amount.--Not more than $15,000,000 may be 
transferred in fiscal year 2020 under the authority in subsection (a).
    (c) Additional Transfer Authority.--The transfer authority in 
subsection (a) is in addition to any other transfer authority available 
to the Department of Defense.

SEC. 1044. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO HOUSE CHILDREN SEPARATED FROM 
              PARENTS.

    (a) In General.--None of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020 may be 
used to house a child separated from a parent.
    (b) Child Separated From a Parent Defined.--The term ``child 
separated from a parent'' means a person who--
            (1) entered the United States, before attaining 18 years of 
        age, at a port of entry or between ports of entry; and
            (2) was separated from his or her parent or legal guardian 
        by the Department of Homeland Security, and the Department of 
        Homeland Security failed to demonstrate in a hearing that the 
        parent or legal guardian was unfit or presented a danger to the 
        child.

SEC. 1045. USE OF FUNDS FOR DEFENSE OF THE ARMED FORCES AND UNITED 
              STATES CITIZENS AGAINST ATTACK BY FOREIGN HOSTILE FORCES.

    Amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be used to 
ensure the ability of the Armed Forces of the United States to defend 
themselves, and United States citizens, against attack by the 
government, military forces, or proxies of a foreign nation or by other 
hostile forces.

                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

SEC. 1051. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ON DEFENSE 
              MANPOWER.

    (a) Conversion of Annual Requirements Report Into Annual Profile 
Report.--Section 115a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking the first two sentences and inserting the 
                following new sentence: ``Not later than April 1 each 
                year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress 
                a defense manpower profile report.'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by adding ``and'' at the end;
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (D) by striking paragraph (3);
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``(1)''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3);
            (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``the following:'' and 
        all that follows and inserting ``the manpower required for 
        support and overhead functions within the armed forces and the 
        Department of Defense.'';
            (4) by striking subsections (e) and (h); and
            (5) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively.
    (b) Conversion of Certain Current Report Elements Into Separate, 
Modified Reports.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (e), as redesignated by subsection (a)(5) 
        of this section--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``The Secretary shall also include in each 
                such report'' and inserting ``Not later than June 1 
                each year, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
                report that sets forth''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and estimates 
                of such numbers for the current fiscal year and 
                subsequent fiscal years''; and
            (2) in subsection (f), as so redesignated--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``In each report submitted under subsection 
                (a), the Secretary shall also include a detailed 
                discussion'' and inserting ``Not later than September 1 
                each year, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
                report that sets forth a detailed discussion, current 
                as of the preceding fiscal year''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the year'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``the fiscal year''.
    (c) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 115a. Annual defense manpower profile report and related 
              reports''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 3 of such title is amended by striking the 
        item relating to section 115a and inserting the following new 
        item:

``115a. Annual defense manpower profile report and related reports.''.

SEC. 1052. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EFFORTS TO IMPLEMENT A FORCE 
              PLANNING PROCESS IN SUPPORT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 2018 
              NATIONAL DEFENSE STRATEGY.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Policy shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report setting forth the plan and processes of the 
Department of Defense to provide analytic support to senior leaders of 
the Department for the force planning required to implement the 2018 
National Defense Strategy. The analytic support shall be designed to 
weigh options, examine tradeoffs across the joint force, and drive 
decisions on force sizing, shaping, capability, and concept development 
in order to address the threats outlined in the 2018 National Defense 
Strategy.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
an assessment of the following:
            (1) The major elements, products, and milestones of the 
        force planning process of the Department.
            (2) The conclusions and recommendations of the Defense 
        Planning and Analysis Community initiative.
            (3) The progress of the Department in implementing the 
        recommendations of the Comptroller General of the United States 
        set forth in Government Accountability Office Report GAO-19-
        40C.
            (4) The progress of the Under Secretary, the Chairman of 
        the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of Cost Assessment 
        and Program Evaluation in implementing paragraph (5) of section 
        134(b) of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 
        902(b) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232).

SEC. 1053. EXTENSION OF ANNUAL REPORTS ON CIVILIAN CASUALTIES IN 
              CONNECTION WITH UNITED STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.

    Section 1057(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1572) is amended by 
striking ``the date this is five years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act'' and inserting ``December 31, 2025''.

SEC. 1054. REPORT ON JOINT FORCE PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF STRATEGIES 
              OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR THE ARCTIC.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 270 days after the date on which 
the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense 
committees the report on an updated Arctic strategy to improve and 
enhance joint operations required by section 1071 of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 
115-232), the Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination with the 
Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary of 
the Air Force, submit to the congressional defense committees a joint 
force plan for implementation of the following:
            (1) The December 2016 Report to Congress on the Strategy to 
        Protect United States National Security Interests in the Arctic 
        Region.
            (2) The updated Arctic strategy to improve and enhance 
        joint operations.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following in connection with the strategies for the Arctic referred 
to in that subsection:
            (1) A description of the specific means for--
                    (A) enhancing the capability of the Armed Forces to 
                defend the homeland and exercise sovereignty;
                    (B) strengthening deterrence at home and abroad;
                    (C) strengthening alliances and partnerships;
                    (D) preserving freedom of the seas in the Arctic;
                    (E) engaging public, private, and international 
                partners to improve domain awareness in the Arctic;
                    (F) developing Department of Defense Arctic 
                infrastructure and capabilities consistent with 
                changing conditions and needs;
                    (G) providing support to civil authorities, as 
                directed;
                    (H) partnering with other departments, agencies, 
                and countries to support human and environmental 
                security; and
                    (I) supporting international institutions that 
                promote regional cooperation and the rule of law.
            (2) An analysis of the operational and contingency plans 
        for the protection of United States national security interests 
        in the Arctic region.
            (3) A description of training, capability, and resource 
        gaps that must be addressed to execute each mission described 
        in the updated Arctic strategy.
            (4) A description of the current and projected Arctic 
        capabilities of the Russian Federation and the People's 
        Republic of China, and an analysis of United States 
        capabilities for satisfying--
                    (A) each mission described in the updated Arctic 
                strategy; and
                    (B) the strategic objectives in the National 
                Defense Strategy.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 1055. REPORT ON USE OF NORTHERN TIER BASES IN IMPLEMENTATION OF 
              ARCTIC STRATEGY OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of the Air Force, shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report outlining how bases in the northern 
latitudes, including Northern Tier bases, may be used in the 
implementation of--
            (1) recommendations included in the report submitted by the 
        Secretary of Defense to Congress in December 2016 entitled 
        ``Report to Congress on Strategy to Protect United States 
        National Security Interests in the Arctic Region''; and
            (2) the updated Arctic strategy to improve and enhance 
        joint operations required to be submitted to the congressional 
        defense committees under section 1071 of the John S. McCain 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
        Law 115-232).
    (b) Inclusion of Mission Sets.--The report under subsection (a) 
shall include a description of current and future mission sets at 
Northern Tier bases that may further the Arctic strategy of the United 
States.
    (c) Northern Tier Bases Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Northern Tier bases'' means installations in the continental United 
States that are located in States bordering Canada.

SEC. 1056. REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PLAN FOR MASS-CASUALTY 
              DISASTER RESPONSE OPERATIONS IN THE ARCTIC.

    (a) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Department of Defense may be called upon to support 
        the Coast Guard and other agencies of the Department of 
        Homeland Security in responding to any mass-casualty disaster 
        response operations in the Arctic;
            (2) coordination between the Department of Defense and the 
        Coast Guard might be necessary for responding to a mass-
        casualty event in the Arctic; and
            (3) prior planning for Arctic mass-casualty disaster 
        response operations will bolster the response of the Federal 
        Government to a mass-casualty disaster in the Arctic 
        environment.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination 
with the Secretary of Homeland Security, submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on the plan of the Department of 
Defense for assisting mass-casualty disaster response operations in the 
Arctic.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the assets that could be made 
        available to support other agencies and departments of the 
        Federal Government for mass-casualty disaster response 
        operations in the Arctic.
            (2) A description and assessment of the command, control, 
        and coordination relationships that would be useful to 
        integrate rescue forces for such operations from multiple 
        departments and agencies of the Federal Government.
            (3) A description and assessment of the communications 
        assets that could be made available in support of other 
        agencies and departments of the Federal Government for 
        communication and coordination in such operations.
            (4) A description of any cooperative arrangements with 
        Canada and other regional partners in providing rescue assets 
        and infrastructure in connection with such operations.
            (5) A description of available medical infrastructure and 
        assets that could be made available in support of other 
        agencies and departments of the Federal Government for 
        aeromedical evacuation in connection with such operations.
            (6) A description of available shelter locations that could 
        be made available in support of other agencies and departments 
        of the Federal Government for use in connection with such 
        operations, including the number of people that can be 
        sheltered per location.
            (7) An assessment of logistical challenges that evacuations 
        from the Arctic in connection with such operations entail, 
        including potential rotary and fixed-wing aircraft trans-load 
        locations and onward movement requirements.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

SEC. 1057. ANNUAL REPORTS ON APPROVAL OF EMPLOYMENT OR COMPENSATION OF 
              RETIRED GENERAL OR FLAG OFFICERS BY FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS 
              FOR EMOLUMENTS CLAUSE PURPOSES.

    (a) Annual Reports.--Section 908 of title 37, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Annual Reports on Approvals for Retired General and Flag 
Officers.--(1) Not later than January 31 each year, the Secretaries of 
the military departments shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
committees and Members of Congress a report on each approval under 
subsection (b) for employment or compensation described in subsection 
(a) for a retired member of the armed forces in a general or flag 
officer grade that was issued during the preceding year.
    ``(2) In this subsection, the appropriate committees and Members of 
Congress are--
            ``(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate;
            ``(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives;
            ``(C) the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader of the 
        Senate; and
            ``(D) the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 
        Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.''.
    (b) Scope of First Report.--The first report submitted pursuant to 
subsection (d) of section 908 of title 37, United States Code (as added 
by subsection (a) of this section), after the date of the enactment of 
this Act shall cover the five-year period ending with the year before 
the year in which such report is submitted.

SEC. 1058. TRANSMITTAL TO CONGRESS OF REQUESTS FOR ASSISTANCE RECEIVED 
              BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FROM OTHER DEPARTMENTS.

    (a) Requests for Assistance.--Not later than seven calendar days 
after the receipt by the Department of Defense of a Request for 
Assistance from the Department of Homeland Security or the Department 
of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Defense shall 
electronically transmit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives a copy of such Request for 
Assistance.
    (b) Responses to Requests.--At the same time the Secretary of 
Defense submits to the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services an official response of the Department of 
Defense to a Request for Assistance from the Department of Homeland 
Security or the Department of Health and Human Services, as applicable, 
the Secretary of Defense shall transmit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a copy of such 
official response.

SEC. 1059. SEMIANNUAL REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED ADJUDICATION FACILITY OF 
              THE DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY.

    Not less frequently than once every six months until the Director 
of the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency determines that 
a steady-state level has been achieved for the Consolidated 
Adjudication Facility of the Agency, the Director shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on inventory and timeliness 
metrics relating to such facility.

SEC. 1060 COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON POST-
              GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT OF FORMER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              OFFICIALS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall initiate a review 
updating the information and findings contained in the May 2008 
Government Accountability Office report entitled, ``Defense 
Contracting: Post-Government Employment of Former DOD Officials Needs 
Greater Transparency'' (GAO-08-485). The Comptroller General shall 
provide an interim briefing on the status of the review to the 
congressional defense committees not later than December 31, 2020, with 
a report to follow by a date agreed upon with the committees.

Subtitle G--Treatment of Contaminated Water Near Military Installations

SEC. 1071. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Prompt and Fast Action to Stop 
Damages Act of 2019''.

SEC. 1072. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) PFOA.--The term ``PFOA'' means perfluorooctanoic acid.
            (2) PFOS.--The term ``PFOS'' means perfluorooctane 
        sulfonate.

SEC. 1073. PROVISION OF WATER UNCONTAMINATED WITH PERFLUOROOCTANOIC 
              ACID (PFOA) AND PERFLUOROOCTANE SULFONATE (PFOS) FOR 
              AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES.

    (a) Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Using amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated or otherwise made available for operation and 
        maintenance for the military department concerned, or for 
        operation and maintenance Defense-wide in the case of the 
        Secretary of Defense, the Secretary concerned may provide water 
        sources uncontaminated with perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
        substances, including PFOA and PFOS, or treatment of 
        contaminated waters, for agricultural purposes used to produce 
        products destined for human consumption in an area in which a 
        water source has been determined pursuant to paragraph (2) to 
        be contaminated with such compounds by reason of activities on 
        a military installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
        concerned.
            (2) Applicable standard.--For purposes of paragraph (1), an 
        area is determined to be contaminated with PFOA or PFOS if--
                    (A) the level of contamination is above the 
                Lifetime Health Advisory for contamination with such 
                compounds issued by the Environmental Protection Agency 
                and printed in the Federal Register on May 25, 2016; or
                    (B) on or after the date the Food and Drug 
                Administration sets a standard for PFOA and PFOS in raw 
                agricultural commodities and milk, the level of 
                contamination is above such standard.
    (b) Secretary Concerned Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Secretary concerned'' means the following:
            (1) The Secretary of the Army, with respect to the Army.
            (2) The Secretary of the Navy, with respect to the Navy, 
        the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard (when it is operating as 
        a service in the Navy).
            (3) The Secretary of the Air Force, with respect to the Air 
        Force.
            (4) The Secretary of Defense, with respect to the Defense 
        Agencies.

SEC. 1074. ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY BY AIR FORCE.

    (a) Authority.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire 
        one or more parcels of real property within the vicinity of an 
        Air Force base that has shown signs of contamination from PFOA 
        and PFOS due to activities on the base and which would extend 
        the contiguous geographic footprint of the base and increase 
        the force protection standoff near critical infrastructure and 
        runways.
            (2) Improvements and personal property.--The authority 
        under paragraph (1) to acquire real property described in that 
        paragraph shall include the authority to purchase improvements 
        and personal property located on that real property.
            (3) Relocation expenses.--The authority under paragraph (1) 
        to acquire real property described in that paragraph shall 
        include the authority to provide Federal financial assistance 
        for moving costs, relocation benefits, and other expenses 
        incurred in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance 
        and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 
        4601 et seq.).
    (b) Environmental Activities.--The Air Force shall conduct such 
activities at a parcel or parcels of real property acquired under 
subsection (a) as are necessary to remediate contamination from PFOA 
and PFOS related to activities at the Air Force base.
    (c) Funding.--Funds for the land acquisitions authorized under 
subsection (a) shall be derived from amounts authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for military construction or the 
unobligated balances of appropriations for military construction that 
are enacted after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--The authority under this section 
constitutes authority to carry out land acquisitions for purposes of 
section 2802 of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 1075. REMEDIATION PLAN.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
Congress a remediation plan for cleanup of all water at or adjacent to 
a military base that is contaminated with PFOA or PFOS.
    (b) Study.--In preparing the remediation plan under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall conduct a study on the contamination of water at 
military bases with PFOA or PFOS.
    (c) Budget Amount.--The Secretary shall ensure that each budget of 
the President submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code, requests funding in amounts necessary to address 
remediation efforts under the remediation plan submitted under 
subsection (a).

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

SEC. 1081. REVISION TO AUTHORITIES RELATING TO MAIL SERVICE FOR MEMBERS 
              OF THE ARMED FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIANS 
              OVERSEAS.

    (a) Eligibility for Free Mail.--Section 3401(a) of title 39, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) First-class letter mail having the character of personal 
correspondence shall be carried, at no cost to the sender, in the 
manner provided by this section, when mailed by an eligible individual 
described in paragraph (2) and addressed to a place within the delivery 
limits of a United States post office, if--
                    ``(A) such letter mail is mailed by the eligible 
                individual at an Armed Forces post office established 
                in an overseas area designated by the President, where 
                the Armed Forces of the United States are deployed for 
                a contingency operation as determined by the Secretary 
                of Defense; or
                    ``(B) the eligible individual is hospitalized as a 
                result of disease or injury incurred as a result of 
                service in an overseas area designated by the President 
                under subparagraph (A).
            ``(2) An eligible individual described in this paragraph 
        is--
                    ``(A) a member of the Armed Forces of the United 
                States on active duty, as defined in section 101 of 
                title 10; or
                    ``(B) a civilian employee of the Department of 
                Defense or a military department who is providing 
                support to military operations.''.
    (b) Surface Shipment of Mail Authorized.--Section 3401 of title 39, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c);
            (2) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g) as 
        subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f), respectively; and
            (3) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) There shall be transported by surface or air, consistent with 
the service purchased by the mailer, between Armed Forces post offices 
or from an Armed Forces post office to a point of entry into the United 
States, the following categories of mail matter which are mailed at any 
such Armed Forces post office:
            ``(1) Letter mail communications having the character of 
        personal correspondence.
            ``(2) Any parcel exceeding 1 pound in weight but less than 
        70 pounds in weight and less than 130 inches in length and 
        girth combined.
            ``(3) Publications published not less frequently than once 
        per week and featuring principally current news of interest to 
        members of the Armed Forces of the United States and the 
        general public.''.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 3401 of title 39, United States Code, is 
        amended in the section heading by striking ``and of friendly 
        foreign nations''.
            (2) The table of sections for chapter 34 of title 39, 
        United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to 
        section 3401 and inserting the following:

``3401. Mailing privileges of members of Armed Forces of the United 
                            States.''.

SEC. 1082. ACCESS TO AND USE OF MILITARY POST OFFICES BY UNITED STATES 
              CITIZENS EMPLOYED OVERSEAS BY THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY 
              ORGANIZATION WHO PERFORM FUNCTIONS IN SUPPORT OF MILITARY 
              OPERATIONS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    Section 406 of title 39, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(c)(1) The Secretary of Defense may authorize the use of a post 
office established under subsection (a) in a location outside the 
United States by citizens of the United States--
            ``(A) who--
                    ``(i) are employed by the North Atlantic Treaty 
                Organization; and
                    ``(ii) perform functions in support of the Armed 
                Forces of the United States; and
            ``(B) if the Secretary makes a written determination that 
        such use is--
                    ``(i) in the best interests of the Department of 
                Defense; and
                    ``(ii) otherwise authorized by applicable host 
                nation law or agreement.
    ``(2) No funds may be obligated or expended to establish, maintain, 
or expand a post office established under subsection (a) for the 
purpose of use described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.''.

SEC. 1083. GUARANTEE OF RESIDENCY FOR SPOUSES OF MEMBERS OF UNIFORMED 
              SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Title VI of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act 
(50 U.S.C. 4021 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new section:

``SEC. 707. GUARANTEE OF RESIDENCY FOR SPOUSES OF SERVICEMEMBERS.

    ``For the purposes of establishing the residency of a spouse of a 
servicemember for any purpose, the spouse of a servicemember may elect 
to use the same residence as the servicemember regardless of the date 
on which the marriage of the spouse and the servicemember occurred.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 706 
the following new item:

``Sec. 707. Guarantee of residency for spouses of servicemembers.''.

SEC. 1084. EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR BRIEFINGS ON THE NATIONAL 
              BIODEFENSE STRATEGY.

    Section 1086(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2423; 6 U.S.C. 104) is 
amended by striking ``March 1, 2019'' and inserting ``March 1, 2025''.

SEC. 1085. EXTENSION OF NATIONAL COMMISSION ON MILITARY AVIATION 
              SAFETY.

    (a) Extension of Deadline for Report.--Section 1087(h)(2) of the 
John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
(Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1995) is amended by striking ``March 1, 
2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
    (b) Calendar Year 2020 Funding.--Of the amount authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense by this 
Act, $3,000,000 shall be available for the National Commission on 
Aviation Safety under section 1087 of the John S. McCain National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 in calendar year 2020.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

SEC. 1101. MODIFICATION OF TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE EMPLOYEES TO A PRIVATE-SECTOR ORGANIZATION.

    Section 1599g(e)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting ``permanent'' after ``without the''.

SEC. 1102. MODIFICATION OF NUMBER OF AVAILABLE APPOINTMENTS FOR CERTAIN 
              AGENCIES UNDER PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY TO ATTRACT 
              EXPERTS IN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING.

    Section 1599h(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``40'' and inserting 
        ``10''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``100'' and inserting 
        ``130''.

SEC. 1103. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT 
              ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO CIVILIAN 
              PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL DUTY IN A COMBAT ZONE.

    Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane 
Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 
1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4616) and most recently 
amended by section 1115 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further 
amended by striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2021''.

SEC. 1104. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION 
              ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE LIMITATION ON PAY FOR 
              FEDERAL CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.

    Subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Duncan Hunter National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 
Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by section 1104(a) of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232), is further amended by striking ``through 2019'' and 
inserting ``through 2020''.

SEC. 1105. REIMBURSEMENT OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES FOR FEDERAL, STATE, AND 
              LOCAL INCOME TAXES INCURRED DURING TRAVEL, 
              TRANSPORTATION, AND RELOCATION.

    (a) In General.--5724b of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the section heading by striking ``of employees 
        transferred'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``employee, 
                or by an employee and such employee's spouse (if filing 
                jointly), for any moving or storage'' and inserting 
                ``individual, or by an individual and such individual's 
                spouse (if filing jointly), for any travel, 
                transportation, or relocation''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking 
                ``employee'' and inserting ``individual, or the 
                individual''; and
            (3) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) For purposes of this section, the term `travel, 
transportation, or relocation expenses' means all travel, 
transportation, or relocation expenses reimbursed or furnished in kind 
pursuant to this subchapter or chapter 41.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 5724b and inserting the following:

``5724b. Taxes on reimbursements for travel, transportation, and 
                            relocation expenses.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall--
            (1) take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act; 
        and
            (2) apply to travel, transportation, or relocation expenses 
        incurred on or after that date.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

SEC. 1201. EXTENSION OF SUPPORT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS FOR IRREGULAR 
              WARFARE.

    Section 1202(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1639) is amended by 
striking ``fiscal years 2018 through 2020'' and inserting ``fiscal 
years 2020 through 2025''.

SEC. 1202. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR CROSS SERVICING AGREEMENTS FOR 
              LOAN OF PERSONNEL PROTECTION AND PERSONNEL SURVIVABILITY 
              EQUIPMENT IN COALITION OPERATIONS.

    Section 1207(e) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (10 U.S.C. 2342 
note) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2019'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2024''.

SEC. 1203. TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF PROGRAM AUTHORITY FOR GLOBAL SECURITY 
              CONTINGENCY FUND.

    Section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (i)(1), by striking ``September 30, 
        2019'' and inserting ``September 30, 2021''; and
            (2) in subsection (o)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``September 
                30, 2019'' and inserting ``September 30, 2021''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``through 
                2019'' and inserting ``through 2021''.

SEC. 1204. MODIFICATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENT FOR USE OF FUNDS FOR 
              SECURITY COOPERATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES.

    Section 381(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``30 days'' and inserting ``60 days''.

SEC. 1205. INSTITUTIONAL LEGAL CAPACITY BUILDING INITIATIVE FOR FOREIGN 
              DEFENSE FORCES.

    (a) Authorization.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out, 
consistent with section 332 of title 10, United States Code, an 
initiative of institutional legal capacity building in collaboration 
with the appropriate institutions of one or more foreign countries to 
enhance the capacity of the applicable foreign country to organize, 
administer, manage, maintain, sustain, or oversee the military legal 
institutions of such country.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the initiative under subsection (a) is 
to enhance, as appropriate, the institutional legal capacity of the 
applicable foreign country to do the following:
            (1) Integrate legal matters into the authority, doctrine, 
        and policies of the defense ministry of such country.
            (2) Provide appropriate legal support to commanders 
        conducting military operations.
            (3) With respect to military law, institutionalize 
        education, training, and professional development for military 
        personnel, including military lawyers, officers, and civilian 
        leadership within such defense ministry.
            (4) Establish a military justice system that is objective, 
        transparent, and impartial.
            (5) Build the legal capacity of military forces to provide 
        equitable, transparent, and accountable institutions and 
        provide for anti-corruption measures within such defense 
        ministry.
            (6) Build capacity--
                    (A) to provide for the protection of civilians 
                consistent with the law of armed conflict; and
                    (B) to investigate incidents of civilian 
                casualties.
            (7) Promote understanding and observance of--
                    (A) the law of armed conflict;
                    (B) human rights and fundamental freedoms;
                    (C) the rule of law; and
                    (D) civilian control of the military.
    (c) Elements.--The initiative under subsection (a) shall include 
the following elements:
            (1) An assessment of the organizational weaknesses for 
        institutional legal capacity building of the applicable foreign 
        country, including baseline information, an assessment of gaps 
        in the capability and capacity of the appropriate institutions 
        of such country, and any other indicator of efficacy for 
        purposes of monitoring and evaluation, as determined by the 
        Secretary.
            (2) A multi-year engagement plan for building institutional 
        capacity that addresses the weaknesses identified under 
        paragraph (1), including objectives, milestones, and a 
        timeline.
            (3) The assignment of advisors, as appropriate, to the 
        ministry of defense or other institutions of such country to 
        assist in building core legal institutional capacity, 
        competencies, and capabilities.
            (4) A measure for monitoring the implementation of the 
        initiative and evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of 
        the initiative, consistent with section 383 of title 10, United 
        States Code.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the end of 
        each fiscal year beginning in fiscal year 2020 through the 
        fiscal year in which the initiative under subsection (a) 
        terminates, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the House of Representatives a report on the 
        progress of the legal capacity building activities under this 
        section.
            (2) Matters to be included.--Each report under paragraph 
        (1) shall include, for the preceding fiscal year, the 
        following:
                    (A) The names of the one or more countries in which 
                the initiative was conducted.
                    (B) For each such country--
                            (i) the purpose of the initiative;
                            (ii) the objectives, milestones, and 
                        timeline of the initiative;
                            (iii) the number and type of advisors 
                        assigned and deployed to the country, as 
                        applicable;
                            (iv) an assessment of the progress of the 
                        implementation of the initiative; and
                            (v) an evaluation of the efficiency and 
                        effectiveness of the initiative.
    (e) Sunset.--The initiative under subsection (a) shall terminate on 
the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 1206. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT FOR STABILIZATION ACTIVITIES 
              IN NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of State and in consultation with the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development, provide support 
for the stabilization activities of other Federal agencies specified 
under subsection (c).
    (b) Designation of Foreign Areas.--
            (1) In general.--Amounts authorized to be provided pursuant 
        to this section shall be available only for support for 
        stabilization activities--
                    (A) in a country specified in paragraph (2); and
                    (B) that the Secretary of Defense, with the 
                concurrence of the Secretary of State, has determined 
                are in the national security interest of the United 
                States.
            (2) Specified countries.--The countries specified in this 
        paragraph are as follows:
                    (A) Iraq.
                    (B) Syria.
                    (C) Afghanistan.
                    (D) Somalia.
                    (E) Yemen.
                    (F) Libya.
    (c) Support to Other Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Support may be provided for stabilization 
        activities under subsection (a) to the Department of State, the 
        United States Agency for International Development, or other 
        Federal agencies, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis.
            (2) Type of support.--Support under subsection (a) may 
        consist of--
                    (A) logistic support, supplies, and services; and
                    (B) equipment.
    (d) Requirement for a Stabilization Strategy.--
            (1) Limitation.--With respect to any country specified in 
        subsection (b)(2), no amount of support may be provided under 
        subsection (a) until 15 days after the date on which the 
        Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
        State, submits to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        detailed report setting forth a stabilization strategy for such 
        country.
            (2) Elements of strategy.--The stabilization strategy 
        required by paragraph (1) shall set forth the following:
                    (A) The United States interests in conducting 
                stabilization activities in the country specified in 
                subsection (b)(2).
                    (B) The key foreign partners and actors in such 
                country.
                    (C) The desired end states and objectives of the 
                United States stabilization activities in such country.
                    (D) The Department of Defense support intended to 
                be provided for the stabilization activities of other 
                Federal agencies under subsection (a).
                    (E) Any mechanism for civil-military coordination 
                regarding support for stabilization activities.
                    (F) The mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating 
                the effectiveness of Department of Defense support for 
                United States stabilization activities in the area.
    (e) Implementation in Accordance With Guidance.--Support provided 
under subsection (a) shall be implemented in accordance with the 
guidance of the Department of Defense entitled ``DoD Directive 3000.05 
Stabilization'', dated December 13, 2018 (or successor guidance).
    (f) Report.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress on an annual basis a report that includes the following:
            (1) The identification of each foreign area within 
        countries specified in subsection (b)(2) for which support to 
        stabilization has occurred.
            (2) The total amount spent by the Department of Defense, 
        broken out by recipient Federal agency and activity.
            (3) An assessment of the contribution of each activity 
        toward greater stability.
            (4) An articulation of any plans for continued Department 
        of Defense support to stabilization in the specified foreign 
        area in order to maintain or improve stability.
            (5) Other matters as the Secretary of Defense considers to 
        be appropriate.
    (g) Use of Funds.--
            (1) Source of funds.--Amounts for activities carried out 
        under this section in a fiscal year shall be derived only from 
        amounts authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year for 
        the Department of Defense for Operation and Maintenance, 
        Defense-wide.
            (2) Limitation.--Not more than $25,000,000 in each fiscal 
        year is authorized to be used to provide nonreimbursable 
        support under this section.
    (h) Expiration.--The authority provided under this section may not 
be exercised after December 31, 2020.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Logistic support, supplies, and services.--The term 
        ``logistic support, supplies, and services'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 2350(1) of title 10 United States 
        Code.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

SEC. 1211. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER DEFENSE ARTICLES AND 
              PROVIDE DEFENSE SERVICES TO THE MILITARY AND SECURITY 
              FORCES OF AFGHANISTAN.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 1222 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
Stat. 1992), as most recently amended by section 1221 of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232), is further amended by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
    (b) Excess Defense Articles.--Subsection (i)(2) of such section 
1222, as so amended, is further amended by striking ``December 31, 
2020'' each place it appears and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.

SEC. 1212. AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for the Afghanistan Security Forces 
Fund, as established by section 1513 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 
428), as most recently amended by section 1223(b) of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 
115-232), $4,803,978,000.
    (b) Continuation of Prior Authorities and Notice and Reporting 
Requirements.--Funds available to the Department of Defense for the 
Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 2020 shall be subject 
to the conditions contained in subsections (b) through (f) of such 
section 1513.
    (c) Use of Funds.--
            (1) Type of assistance.--Subsection (b)(2) of such section 
        1513 is amended by inserting ``(including program and security 
        assistance management support)'' after ``services''.
    (d) Equipment Disposition.--
            (1) Acceptance of certain equipment.--Subject to paragraph 
        (2), the Secretary of Defense may accept equipment that is 
        procured using amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
        Afghanistan Security Forces Fund by this Act and is intended 
        for transfer to the security forces of Afghanistan, but is not 
        accepted by such security forces.
            (2) Conditions on acceptance of equipment.--Before 
        accepting any equipment under paragraph (1), the Commander of 
        United States forces in Afghanistan shall make a determination 
        that the equipment was procured for the purpose of meeting 
        requirements of the security forces of Afghanistan, as agreed 
        to by both the Government of Afghanistan and the United States, 
        but is no longer required by such security forces or was 
        damaged before transfer to such security forces.
            (3) Elements of determination.--In making a determination 
        under paragraph (2), the Commander of United States forces in 
        Afghanistan shall consider alternatives to acceptance of the 
        equipment by the Secretary. An explanation of each 
        determination, including the basis for the determination and 
        the alternatives considered, shall be included in the relevant 
        quarterly report under paragraph (5).
            (4) Treatment as department of defense stocks.--Equipment 
        accepted under paragraph (1) may be treated as stocks of the 
        Department of Defense upon notification to the congressional 
        defense committees of such treatment.
            (5) Quarterly reports on equipment disposition.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, and every 90-day 
                period thereafter during which the authority provided 
                by paragraph (1) is exercised, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
                describing the equipment accepted during the period 
                covered by such report under the following:
                            (i) This subsection.
                            (ii) Section 1531(d) of the National 
                        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
                        (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 938; 10 U.S.C. 
                        2302 note).
                            (iii) Section 1532(b) of the Carl Levin and 
                        Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
                        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public 
                        Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3612).
                    (B) Elements.--Each report under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include a list of all equipment accepted during 
                the period covered by the report and treated as stocks 
                of the Department of Defense and copies of the 
                determinations made under paragraph (2), as required by 
                paragraph (3).
    (e) Security of Afghan Women.--
            (1) In general.--Of the funds available to the Department 
        of Defense for the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for fiscal 
        year 2020, it is the goal that $25,000,000, but in no event 
        less than $10,000,000, shall be used for--
                    (A) the recruitment, integration, retention, 
                training, and treatment of women in the Afghan National 
                Defense and Security Forces; and
                    (B) the recruitment, training, and contracting of 
                female security personnel for future elections.
            (2) Types of programs and activities.--Such programs and 
        activities may include--
                    (A) efforts to recruit women into the Afghan 
                National Defense and Security Forces, including the 
                special operations forces;
                    (B) programs and activities of the Afghan Ministry 
                of Defense Directorate of Human Rights and Gender 
                Integration and the Afghan Ministry of Interior Office 
                of Human Rights, Gender, and Child Rights;
                    (C) development and dissemination of gender and 
                human rights educational and training materials and 
                programs within the Afghan Ministry of Defense and the 
                Afghan Ministry of Interior;
                    (D) efforts to address harassment and violence 
                against women within the Afghan National Defense and 
                Security Forces;
                    (E) improvements to infrastructure that address the 
                requirements of women serving in the Afghan National 
                Defense and Security Forces, including appropriate 
                equipment for female security and police forces, and 
                transportation for policewomen to their station;
                    (F) support for Afghan National Police Family 
                Response Units; and
                    (G) security provisions for high-profile female 
                police and army officers.
    (f) Assessment of Efforts to Build Capacity in the Afghan National 
Defense and Security Forces.--
            (1) Assessment required.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the House of Representatives an assessment 
        that describes the following:
                    (A) The integrated capacity development strategies 
                for--
                            (i) the Ministry of Defense and the 
                        Ministry of Interior of Afghanistan; and
                            (ii) the North Atlantic Treaty 
                        Organization-led Train Advise Assist Commands 
                        and Task Forces at the national and regional 
                        levels in Afghanistan.
                    (B) An articulation of the key capabilities to be 
                developed and improved with respect to the Ministry of 
                Defense, the Ministry of Interior, and the North 
                Atlantic Treaty Organization-led Train Advise Assist 
                Commands and Task Forces, and the overall plan 
                (including timeframes, budgets, and specific 
                initiatives) to achieve the intended outcomes.
                    (C) The specific roles of Department of Defense-
                funded advisors in building the capacity of the 
                Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Interior of 
                Afghanistan and the Afghan National Defense and 
                Security Forces at the national and regional levels, 
                and the manner in which such roles align with the 
                development strategy referred to in subparagraph (A).
                    (D) The metrics used to assess progress on the 
                recruitment, integration, retention, training, and 
                treatment of women in the Afghan National Defense and 
                Security Forces, and a progress report on such 
                recruitment, integration, retention, training, and 
                treatment.
                    (E) An explanation of the assessment, monitoring, 
                and evaluation mechanisms in place to assess the 
                relevance, effectiveness, and sustainability of each 
                specific initiative and progress made toward the 
                intended outcomes identified under subparagraph (B).
                    (F) Any other matter the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.

SEC. 1213. EXTENSION OF COMMANDERS' EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM.

    Section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1619), as most recently amended 
by the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``December 31, 2019'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2020'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``of fiscal years 2017 
        through 2019'' and inserting ``for each of fiscal years 2017 
        through 2020''; and
            (3) in subsection (f), in the first sentence, by striking 
        ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.

SEC. 1214. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN 
              COALITION NATIONS FOR SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED STATES 
              MILITARY OPERATIONS.

    Section 1233(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 393), as most recently 
amended by section 1225 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Authority.--From funds made available for the Department of 
Defense for the period beginning on October 1, 2019, and ending on 
December 31, 2020, for overseas contingency operations for operation 
and maintenance, Defense-wide activities, the Secretary of Defense may 
reimburse any key cooperating nation (other than Pakistan) for--
            ``(1) logistical and military support provided by that 
        nation to or in connection with United States military 
        operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, or Syria; and
            ``(2) logistical, military, and other support, including 
        access, provided by that nation to or in connection with United 
        States military operations described in paragraph (1).''.

SEC. 1215. SUPPORT FOR RECONCILIATION ACTIVITIES LED BY THE GOVERNMENT 
              OF AFGHANISTAN.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of State, provide covered support for reconciliation 
activities to one or more designated persons or entities or Federal 
agencies.
    (b) Designation.--Not later than 15 days before the Secretary of 
Defense designates an individual or organization as a designated person 
or entity, the Secretary shall notify the congressional defense 
committees of the intent of the Secretary to make such designation.
    (c) Reimbursement.--
            (1) Designated persons or entities.--The Secretary of 
        Defense may provide covered support to a designated person or 
        entity on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis.
            (2) Federal agencies.--The Secretary of Defense may provide 
        covered support to a Federal agency on a reimbursable or 
        nonreimbursable basis.
    (d) Location of Covered Support.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary of Defense may only provide covered support within 
        Afghanistan.
            (2) Exception.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary of Defense may provide covered support in Pakistan if 
        the Secretary determines, and certifies to the congressional 
        defense committees, that providing covered support in Pakistan 
        is in the national security interest of the United States.
    (e) Notification.--Not later than 15 days before the date on which 
the Secretary of Defense provides covered support to a nongovernmental 
designated person or entity or provides covered support in Pakistan, 
the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
written notice that includes the intended recipient of such covered 
support and the specific covered support to be provided.
    (f) Funding.--
            (1) Source of funds.--Amounts for covered support may only 
        be derived from amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
        Department of Defense for operation and maintenance.
            (2) Limitation.--Not more than $15,000,000 may be used for 
        nonreimbursable covered support.
    (g) Rule of Construction.--Covered support shall not be construed 
to violate section 2339, 2339A, or 2339B of title 18, United States 
Code.
    (h) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and quarterly thereafter, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination with the Secretary 
        of State, submit to the congressional defense committees a 
        report on covered support during the preceding 90-day period.
            (2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall 
        include, for the preceding reporting period, the following:
                    (A) A summary of the ongoing reconciliation 
                activities for which covered support was provided.
                    (B) A description of the covered support, by class 
                or type, and the designated person or entity or Federal 
                agency that received each class or type of covered 
                support.
                    (C) The total dollar amount of each class or type 
                of covered support, including budget details.
                    (D) The intended duration of each provision of 
                covered support.
                    (E) Any other matter the Secretary of Defense 
                considers appropriate.
    (i) Sunset.--The authority to carry out this section shall 
terminate on December 31, 2020.
    (j) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered support.--The term ``covered support'' means 
        logistic support, supplies, and services (as defined in section 
        2350 of title 10, United States Code) and security provided 
        under this section.
            (2) Designated person or entity.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``designated person or 
                entity'' means an individual or organization designated 
                by the Secretary of Defense as necessary to facilitate 
                a reconciliation activity.
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``designated person or 
                entity'' does not include a Federal agency.
            (3) Reconciliation activity.--The term ``reconciliation 
        activity'' means any activity intended to support, facilitate, 
        or enable a political settlement between the Government of 
        Afghanistan and the Taliban for the purpose of ending the war 
        in Afghanistan.
            (4) Security.--The term ``security'' means any measure 
        determined by the Secretary of Defense to be necessary to 
        protect reconciliation activities from hostile acts.

SEC. 1216. SENSE OF SENATE ON SPECIAL IMMIGRANT VISA PROGRAM FOR AFGHAN 
              ALLIES.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the special immigrant visa program for Afghan allies is 
        critical to the mission in Afghanistan and the long-term 
        interests of the United States;
            (2) maintaining a robust special immigrant visa program for 
        Afghan allies is necessary to support United States Government 
        personnel in Afghanistan who need translation, interpretation, 
        security, and other services;
            (3) Afghan allies routinely risk their lives to assist 
        United States military and diplomatic personnel;
            (4) honoring the commitments made to Afghan allies with 
        respect to such special immigrant visa program is essential to 
        ensuring the continued service and safety of such allies; and
            (5) an additional 4,000 visas should be made available to 
        principal aliens who are eligible for special immigrant status 
        under the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 
        note) to prevent harm to the operations of the United States 
        Government in Afghanistan.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

SEC. 1221. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO VETTED 
              SYRIAN GROUPS.

    (a) Nature of Assistance.--Subsection (a) of section 1209 of the 
Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3541), as most 
recently amended by section 1231(a) of the John S. McCain National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is 
further amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``with a cost'' and all that follows through ``December 31, 
        2019'' and inserting ``, and sustainment to appropriately 
        vetted Syrian groups and individuals, through December 31, 
        2020'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Islamic State of Iraq 
        and the Levant'' and all that follows through the period at the 
        end and inserting the following: ``Islamic State of Iraq and 
        Syria (ISIS).''; and
            (3) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting the 
        following new paragraphs:
            ``(2) Securing territory formerly controlled by the Islamic 
        State of Iraq and Syria.
            ``(3) Protecting the United States and its friends and 
        allies from the threats posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and 
        Syria, al Qaeda, and associated forces in Syria.
            ``(4) Supporting the temporary detention and repatriation 
        of Islamic State of Iraq and Syria foreign terrorist fighters 
        in accordance with the laws of armed conflict and the United 
        Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, done at 
        Geneva July 28, 1951 (as made applicable by the Protocol 
        Relating to the Status of Refugees, done at New York January 
        31, 1967 (19 UST 6223)).''.
    (b) Scope of Quarterly Progress Reports.--Subsection (d) of such 
section, as most recently amended by section 1223(b) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 
Stat. 1653), is further amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Quarterly Progress Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--Beginning on January 15, 2020, and every 
        90 days thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
        with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees and leadership of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate a progress report.
            ``(2) Matters to be included.--Each progress report under 
        paragraph (1) shall include, based on the most recent quarterly 
        information, the following:
                    ``(A) A description of the appropriately vetted 
                recipients receiving assistance under subsection (a).
                    ``(B) A description of training, equipment, 
                supplies, stipends, and other support provided to 
                appropriately vetted recipients under subsection (a) 
                and a statement of the amount of funds expended for 
                such purposes during the period covered by the report.
                    ``(C) Any misuse or loss of provided training and 
                equipment and how such misuse or loss is being 
                mitigated.
                    ``(D) An assessment of the recruitment, throughput, 
                and retention rates of appropriately vetted recipients.
                    ``(E) An assessment of the operational 
                effectiveness of appropriately vetted recipients in 
                meeting the purposes specified in subsection (a).
                    ``(F) A description of United States Government 
                stabilization objectives and activities carried out in 
                areas formerly controlled by the Islamic State of Iraq 
                and Syria, including significant projects and funding 
                associated with such projects.
                    ``(G) A description of coalition contributions to 
                the purposes specified in subsection (a) and other 
                related stabilization activities.
                    ``(H) With respect to Islamic State of Iraq and 
                Syria foreign terrorist fighters--
                            ``(i) an estimate of the number of such 
                        individuals being detained by appropriately 
                        vetted Syrian groups and individuals;
                            ``(ii) an estimate of the number of such 
                        individuals that have been repatriated and the 
                        countries to which such individuals have been 
                        repatriated; and
                            ``(iii) a description of United States 
                        Government support provided to facilitate the 
                        repatriation of such individuals.
                    ``(I) An assessment of the extent to which 
                appropriately vetted Syrian groups and individuals have 
                enabled progress toward establishing inclusive, 
                representative, accountable, and civilian-led 
                governance and security structures in territories 
                liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.''.
    (c) Elimination of Reprogramming Requirement.--Such section is 
further amended by striking subsection (f).
    (d) Inclusion of Support for Stabilization Activities.--Such 
section is further amended by inserting after subsection (e) the 
following new subsection (f):
    ``(f) Support for Stabilization Activities.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State and in consultation with 
        the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
        Development, provide support for the stabilization activities 
        of the Department of State, the United States Agency for 
        International Development, and any other Federal agency on a 
        reimburseable or nonreimburseable basis.
            ``(2) Types of support.--The support provided under 
        paragraph (1) may consist of--
                    ``(A) logistic support, supplies, and services; or
                    ``(B) equipment.''.
    (e) Per Project and Aggregate Cost Limitations for Construction and 
Repair Projects.--Subsection (l) of such section, as added by section 
1223(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 
(Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1653), is amended to read as follows:
    ``(l) Limitation on Cost of Construction and Repair Projects.--
            ``(1) In general.--The cost of construction and repair 
        projects carried out under this section may not exceed, in any 
        fiscal year--
                    ``(A) $4,000,000 per project; or
                    ``(B) $12,000,000 in the aggregate.
            ``(2) Foreign contributions.--The limitation under 
        paragraph (1) shall not apply to the expenditure of foreign 
        contributions in excess of the per-project or aggregate 
        limitation set forth in that paragraph.''.
    (f) Inclusion of Limitation Pending Report.--Such section is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(n) Limitation Pending Report.--None of the funds authorized to 
be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense may 
be obligated or expended for activities under this section until 30 
days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits an 
unclassified report, with a classified annex if necessary, to the 
congressional defense committees setting forth the following:
            ``(1) A description of the efforts the United States will 
        undertake to train and equip appropriately vetted Syrian groups 
        and individuals for the purposes described in subsection (a).
            ``(2) A detailed description of the appropriately vetted 
        Syrian groups and individuals to be trained and equipped under 
        this section, including a description of their geographical 
        locations, demographic profiles, political affiliations, and 
        current capabilities.
            ``(3) A detailed description of planned capabilities, 
        including categories of training, equipment, financial support, 
        sustainment, and supplies, intended to be provided to 
        appropriately vetted Syrian groups and individuals under this 
        section, and timelines for delivery.
            ``(4) A description of the planned posture of United States 
        forces and the planned level of engagement by such forces with 
        appropriately vetted Syrian groups and individuals, including 
        the oversight of equipment provided under this section and the 
        activities conducted by such appropriately vetted Syrian groups 
        and individuals.
            ``(5) An explanation of the processes and mechanisms for 
        local commanders of such forces to exercise command and control 
        of the elements of the appropriately vetted Syrian groups and 
        individuals after such elements have been trained and equipped 
        under this section.
            ``(6) A detailed explanation of the relationship between 
        appropriately vetted recipients and civilian governance 
        authorities and a description of efforts to ensure 
        appropriately vetted recipients are subject to the control of 
        competent civilian authorities.''.

SEC. 1222. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY AND LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO 
              PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ 
              AND SYRIA.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1236 of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3559), as most recently 
amended by section 1233(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2021''.
    (b) Funding.--Subsection (g) of such section, as most recently 
amended by section 1233(b) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2020''; and
            (2) by striking ``$850,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$645,000,000''.
    (c) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2020 by this Act for activities under such 
section 1236, as amended by subsection (a), not more than $375,000,000 
may be obligated or expended for such activities until the date on 
which the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense 
committees a report setting forth the following:
            (1) An identification of the specific units of the Iraqi 
        Security Forces to receive training and equipment or other 
        support in fiscal year 2020.
            (2) A plan for ensuring that any vehicles or equipment 
        provided to the Iraqi Security Forces pursuant to such 
        authority are maintained in subsequent fiscal years using funds 
        of Iraq.
            (3) An estimate, by fiscal year, of the funding anticipated 
        to be required for support of the Iraqi Security Forces during 
        the five fiscal years beginning in fiscal year 2020.
            (4) A plan for normalizing assistance to the Iraqi Security 
        Forces under chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, 
        beginning in fiscal year 2020.
            (5) A detailed plan for the obligation and expenditure of 
        the funds requested for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of 
        Defense for stipends.
            (6) A plan for the transition to the Government of Iraq the 
        responsibility for funding for stipends for any fiscal year 
        after fiscal year 2020.

SEC. 1223. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT 
              OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE OFFICE OF SECURITY 
              COOPERATION IN IRAQ.

    (a) Authority.--Section 1215 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may support United 
States Government security cooperation activities in Iraq by providing 
funds for operations and activities of the Office of Security 
Cooperation in Iraq.'';
            (2) by striking subsection (f);
            (3) in subsection (g)(2), by striking subparagraph (F); and
            (4) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).
    (b) Types of Support.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended by 
striking ``life support, transportation and personal security, and 
construction and renovation of facilities'' and inserting ``life 
support, transportation, and personal security''.
    (c) Amount Available.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting 
                ``fiscal year 2020''; and
                    (B) by striking ``$45,300,000'' and inserting 
                ``$30,000,000''; and
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal year 2020''.
    (d) Coverage of Costs of the Office of Security Cooperation in 
Iraq.--Subsection (e) of such section is amended by striking 
``activities of security assistance teams in Iraq in connection with 
such sale'' and inserting ``activities of the Office of Security 
Cooperation in Iraq in excess of the amount set forth in subsection 
(c)''.

SEC. 1224. COORDINATOR OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES AND 
              MATTERS IN CONNECTION WITH DETAINEES WHO ARE MEMBERS OF 
              THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, the Director of National 
Intelligence, and the Attorney General, designate an existing official 
within the Executive Branch to serve as senior-level coordinator to 
coordinate, in conjunction with the lead and other relevant agencies, 
all matters for the United States Government relating to the long-term 
disposition of members of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) 
and associated forces (in this section referred to as ``ISIS 
detainees''), including all matters in connection with--
            (1) repatriation, transfer, prosecution, and intelligence-
        gathering; and
            (2) all multilateral and international engagements led by 
        the Department of State and other agencies that are related to 
        the current and future handling, detention, and prosecution of 
        ISIS detainees.
    (b) Retention of Authority.--The appointment of a senior-level 
coordinator pursuant to subsection (a) shall not deprive any agency of 
any authority to independently perform functions of that agency.
    (c) Annual Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once 
        each year thereafter through December 31, 2024, the individual 
        designated under subsection (a) shall submit to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress a detailed report regarding the 
        following ISIS detainees:
                    (A) Alexanda Kotey.
                    (B) El Shafee Elsheikh.
                    (C) Aine Lesley Davis.
                    (D) Umm Sayyaf.
                    (E) Any other high-value ISIS detainee that the 
                coordinator reasonably determines to be subject to 
                criminal prosecution in the United States.
            (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        include, at a minimum, the following:
                    (A) A detailed description of the facilities where 
                ISIS detainees described in paragraph (1) are being 
                held.
                    (B) An analysis of all United States efforts to 
                prosecute ISIS detainees described in paragraph (1) and 
                the outcomes of such efforts. Any information, the 
                disclosure of which may violate Department of Justice 
                policy or law, relating to a prosecution or 
                investigation may be withheld from a report under 
                paragraph (1).
                    (C) A detailed description of any option to 
                expedite prosecution of any ISIS detainee described in 
                paragraph (1), including in a court of competent 
                jurisdiction outside of the United States.
                    (D) An analysis of factors on the ground in Syria 
                and Iraq that may result in the unintended release of 
                ISIS detainees described in paragraph (1), and an 
                assessment of any measures available to mitigate such 
                releases.
                    (E) A detailed description of all multilateral and 
                other international efforts or proposals that would 
                assist in the prosecution of ISIS detainees described 
                in paragraph (1).
                    (F) An analysis of all efforts between the United 
                States and partner countries within the Global 
                Coalition to Defeat ISIS or other countries to share 
                intelligence or evidence that may aid in the 
                prosecution of members of the Islamic State of Iraq and 
                Syria and associated forces, and any legal obstacles 
                that may hinder such efforts.
                    (G) An analysis of the manner in which the United 
                States Government communicates on such proposals and 
                efforts to the families of United States citizens 
                believed to be a victim of a criminal act by an ISIS 
                detainee.
            (3) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on the Judiciary, the Select 
        Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Appropriations 
        of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1225. REPORT ON LESSONS LEARNED FROM EFFORTS TO LIBERATE MOSUL AND 
              RAQQAH FROM CONTROL OF THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND 
              SYRIA.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on lessons learned from 
coalition operations to liberate Mosul, Iraq, and Raqqah, Syria, from 
control of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
a description of lessons learned in connection with each of the 
following:
            (1) Combat in densely populated urban environments.
            (2) Enablement of partner forces, including unique aspects 
        of conducting combined operations with regular and irregular 
        forces.
            (3) Advise, assist, and accompany efforts, including such 
        efforts conducted remotely.
            (4) Integration of United States general purpose and 
        special operations forces.
            (5) Integration of United States and international forces.
            (6) Irregular and unconventional warfare approaches, 
        including the application of training and doctrine by special 
        operations and general purpose forces.
            (7) Use of command, control, communications, computer, 
        intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems and 
        techniques.
            (8) Logistics.
            (9) Information operations.
            (10) Targeting and weaponeering, including efforts to avoid 
        civilian casualties and other collateral damage.
            (11) Facilitation of flows of internally displaced people 
        and humanitarian assistance.
            (12) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate and could benefit training, doctrine, and 
        resourcing of future operations.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

   Subtitle D--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

SEC. 1231. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO SOVEREIGNTY 
              OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION OVER CRIMEA.

    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to implement any 
activity that recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over 
Crimea.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) if 
the Secretary of Defense--
            (1) determines that a waiver is in the national security 
        interest of the United States; and
            (2) on the date on which the waiver is invoked, submits a 
        notification of the waiver and a justification of the reason 
        for seeking the waiver to--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.

SEC. 1232. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR WITHDRAWAL OF ARMED FORCES 
              FROM EUROPE IN THE EVENT OF UNITED STATES WITHDRAWAL FROM 
              THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the President 
provides notice of withdrawal of the United States from the North 
Atlantic Treaty, done at Washington D.C. April 4, 1949, pursuant to 
Article 13 of the Treaty, during the one-year period beginning on the 
date of such notice, no funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
may be obligated, expended, or reprogrammed for the withdrawal of the 
United States Armed Forces from Europe.

SEC. 1233. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON MILITARY COOPERATION BETWEEN THE 
              UNITED STATES AND THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

    Subsection (a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2488), as most recently 
amended by section 1247 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further 
amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking ``fiscal year 
2017, 2018, or 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2017, 2018, 2019, or 
2020''.

SEC. 1234. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE 
              INITIATIVE.

    Section 1250 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1068), as most recently amended 
by section 1246 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``in coordination with the Secretary of 
        State'' and inserting ``with the concurrence of the Secretary 
        of State'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (11) to read as follows:
            ``(11) Air defense and coastal defense radars, and systems 
        to support effective command and control and integration of air 
        defense and coastal defense capabilities.'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (14) and (15) as 
                paragraphs (15) and (16), respectively;
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (13) the following 
                new paragraph (14):
            ``(14) Coastal defense and anti-ship missile systems.''; 
        and
                    (D) in paragraph (15), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``paragraphs (1) through (13)'' and inserting 
                ``paragraphs (1) through (14)'';
            (3) in subsection (c), by amending paragraph (5) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(5) Lethal assistance.--Of the funds available for fiscal 
        year 2020 pursuant to subsection (f)(5), $100,000,000 shall be 
        available only for lethal assistance described in paragraphs 
        (2), (3), (11), (12), and (14) of subsection (b).'';
            (4) in subsection (f), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(5) For fiscal year 2020, $300,000,000.''; and
            (5) in subsection (h), by striking ``December 31, 2021'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2022''.

SEC. 1235. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR TRAINING FOR EASTERN EUROPEAN 
              NATIONAL SECURITY FORCES IN THE COURSE OF MULTILATERAL 
              EXERCISES.

    Subsection (h) of section 1251 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 333 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``December 31, 
        2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2022''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``for for the 
        period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on December 31, 
        2020'' and inserting ``for the period beginning on October 1, 
        2015, and ending on December 31, 2022''.

SEC. 1236. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF F-35 AIRCRAFT TO THE REPUBLIC OF 
              TURKEY.

    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for the Department of Defense may be used to do the 
following:
            (1) Transfer, or facilitate the transfer of, F-35 aircraft 
        to the territory of the Republic of Turkey.
            (2) Transfer equipment, intellectual property, or technical 
        data necessary for or related to the maintenance or support of 
        the F-35 aircraft in the territory of the Republic of Turkey.
            (3) Construct facilities for or otherwise associated with 
        the storage of F-35 aircraft in the territory of the Republic 
        of Turkey.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, may waive the limitation under subsection (a) if 
the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State submit to the 
congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives a certification that the Government of Turkey--
            (1) has not accepted delivery of the S-400 air and missile 
        defense system from the Russian Federation; and
            (2) has provided reliable assurances that the Government of 
        Turkey will not accept delivery of the S-400 air and missile 
        defense system from the Russian Federation in the future.

SEC. 1237. MODIFICATIONS OF BRIEFING, NOTIFICATION, AND REPORTING 
              REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO NON-COMPLIANCE BY THE RUSSIAN 
              FEDERATION WITH ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE INF TREATY.

    (a) Briefing Requirement.--Section 1244(d) of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3565; 22 U.S.C. 2593a note)--
            (1) by striking ``At the time'' and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(A) In general.--At the time''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(B) Sunset.--The briefing requirement under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be in effect so long as the INF 
                Treaty remains in force.''.
    (b) Notification Requirement Relating to Coordination With 
Allies.--Section 1243(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1601) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Sunset.--The notification requirement under paragraph 
        (1) shall be in effect so long as the INF Treaty remains in 
        force.''.
    (c) Notification Requirement Relating to Development, Deployment, 
or Test of a System Inconsistent With INF Treaty.--Section 1244(a) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
115-91; 131 Stat. 1673; 22 U.S.C. 2593a note) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Sunset.--The notification requirement under paragraph 
        (1) shall be in effect so long as the INF Treaty remains in 
        force.''.
    (d) Reporting Requirement Under Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 
2014.--Section 10(c) of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 (22 
U.S.C. 8929) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(3) Sunset.--The reporting requirement under paragraph 
        (1) shall be in effect so long as the INF Treaty remains in 
        force.''.

SEC. 1238. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR BALTIC 
              NATIONS FOR JOINT PROGRAM FOR INTEROPERABILITY AND 
              DETERRENCE AGAINST AGGRESSION.

    (a) Additional Defense Articles and Services.--Subsection (c) of 
section 1279D of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1702; 22 U.S.C. 2753 note) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph (5):
            ``(5) Command, control, communications, computers, 
        intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR) 
        equipment.''.
    (b) Funding.--Subsection (f) of such section is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``$100,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$125,000,000''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Matching amount.--The amount of assistance provided 
        under subsection (a) for procurement described in subsection 
        (b) may not exceed the aggregate amount contributed to such 
        procurement by the Baltic nations.''.
    (c) Extension.--Subsection (g) of such section is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2022''.

SEC. 1239. REPORT ON NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION READINESS 
              INITIATIVE.

    (a) Report.--Not later than October 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Readiness Initiative, 
which shall include assessments of the following:
            (1) The number of units North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        allies have pledged against the benchmark to provide an 
        additional 30 air attack squadrons, 30 naval combat vessels, 
        and 30 mechanized battalions ready to fight in not more than 30 
        days.
            (2) The procedure by which the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization certifies, reports, and ensures that the Supreme 
        Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR) maintains a detailed 
        understanding of the readiness of the forces described in 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) The North Atlantic Treaty Organization plan to maintain 
        the readiness of such forces in future years.
    (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 1240. REPORTS ON CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY 
              ORGANIZATION.

    (a) In General.--Beginning in 2020, and annually thereafter through 
2025, not later than 30 days after the date on which the annual report 
of the Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for 
the preceding calendar year is published, the Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Commander of United States European Command, 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that 
includes the following:
            (1) A link to an electronic version of such annual report 
        of the Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization.
            (2) A summary of the key findings of such annual report.
            (3) A description of the significant financial 
        contributions by member countries of the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization that support the presence or operations of the 
        United States Armed Forces in Europe.
            (4) An assessment of the progress of each member country of 
        the North Atlantic Treaty Organization toward meeting the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization capability targets for such member 
        country.
            (5) An assessment of North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        capability and capacity shortfalls that may be addressed 
        through investment by North Atlantic Treaty Organization member 
        countries that have not met the Defense Investment Pledge made 
        at the 2014 summit of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in 
        Wales.
            (6) A description of the contribution of each member 
        country of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to the NATO 
        Readiness Initiative.
            (7) A description of--
                    (A) the personnel and financial contributions of 
                each member country of the North Atlantic Treaty 
                Organization to military or stability operations in 
                which the United States Armed Forces are a participant; 
                and
                    (B) any limitation placed by such member country on 
                the use of such contributions.
            (8) An assessment of the compatibility and alignment of 
        United States and North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        contingency plans, including recommendations to reduce the risk 
        of executing such plans.
            (9) An assessment of current North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization initiatives, and any recommendations for future 
        reforms or initiatives, to accelerate the speed of decision and 
        deployability of North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces.
    (b) Form.--Each report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1241. FUTURE YEARS PLANS FOR EUROPEAN DETERRENCE INITIATIVE.

    (a) Plan Required.--
            (1) Initial plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2019, 
                the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
                Commander of the United States European Command, shall 
                submit to the congressional defense committees a future 
                years plan on activities and resources of the European 
                Deterrence Initiative (EDI) for fiscal year 2020 and 
                not fewer than the four succeeding fiscal years.
                    (B) Matters to be included.--The plan required 
                under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) A description of the objectives of the 
                        European Deterrence Initiative, including a 
                        description of--
                                    (I) the intended force structure 
                                and posture of the assigned and 
                                allocated forces within the area of 
                                responsibility of the United States 
                                European Command for the last fiscal 
                                year of the plan; and
                                    (II) the manner in which such force 
                                structure and posture support the 
                                implementation of the National Defense 
                                Strategy.
                            (ii) An assessment of capabilities 
                        requirements to achieve the objectives of the 
                        European Deterrence Initiative.
                            (iii) An assessment of logistics 
                        requirements, including personnel, equipment, 
                        supplies, storage, and maintenance needs, to 
                        achieve the objectives of the European 
                        Deterrence Initiative.
                            (iv) An identification of required 
                        infrastructure and military construction 
                        investments to achieve the objectives of the 
                        European Deterrence Initiative, including 
                        potential infrastructure investments by host 
                        nations.
                            (v) An assessment of security cooperation 
                        investments required to achieve the objectives 
                        of the European Deterrence Initiative.
                            (vi) A plan to fully resource United States 
                        force posture and capabilities, including--
                                    (I) a detailed assessment of the 
                                resources necessary to address the 
                                requirements described in clauses (i) 
                                through (v), including specific cost 
                                estimates for each project in the 
                                European Deterrence Initiative to 
                                support increased presence, exercises 
                                and training, enhanced prepositioning, 
                                improved infrastructure, and building 
                                partnership capacity; and
                                    (II) a detailed timeline to achieve 
                                the intended force structure and 
                                posture described in clause (i)(I).
            (2) Subsequent plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than the date on which 
                the Secretary submits to Congress the budget request 
                for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021, the 
                Secretary, in consultation with the Commander of the 
                United States European Command, shall submit to the 
                congressional defense committees a future years plan on 
                activities and resources of the European Deterrence 
                Initiative for fiscal year 2021 and not fewer than the 
                four succeeding fiscal years.
                    (B) Matters to be included.--The plan required 
                under subparagraph (A) shall include--
                            (i) the matters described in subparagraph 
                        (B) of paragraph (1); and
                            (ii) a detailed explanation of any 
                        significant modifications in requirements or 
                        resources, as compared to the plan submitted 
                        under that paragraph.
    (b) Form.--The plans required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 1242. MODIFICATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO THE OPEN 
              SKIES TREATY.

    (a) Plan for Implementation Flights.--Section 1235(a) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
115-91; 131 Stat. 1660) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``the President'' and inserting 
                ``the Secretary of Defense''; and
                    (B) by striking ``with respect to such fiscal 
                year'' and inserting ``with respect to the calendar 
                year in which the flight is to be conducted'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``during such fiscal 
        year'' and inserting ``during such calendar year''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ``with respect to a 
        fiscal year'' and inserting ``with respect to a calendar 
        year''.
    (b) Quarterly Reports on Observation Flights by the Russian 
Federation.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of section 
        1236 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2491) is amended by 
        striking ``on a quarterly basis'' and inserting ``on an annual 
        basis''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Such subsection is further 
        amended, in the subsection heading, by striking ``Quarterly'' 
        and inserting ``Annual''.

SEC. 1243. REPORT ON NUCLEAR WEAPONS OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND 
              NUCLEAR MODERNIZATION OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than February 15, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence and 
the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report that includes the following:
            (1) An assessment of the deployed nuclear weapons of the 
        Russian Federation not covered by the New START Treaty.
            (2) An assessment of the nuclear weapons of the Russian 
        Federation in development that would not be covered by the New 
        START Treaty.
            (3) An assessment of the strategic nuclear weapons of the 
        Russian Federation that are not deployed.
            (4) An assessment of the efforts of the People's Republic 
        of China with respect to nuclear modernization.
            (5) The implications of such assessments with respect to 
        the limitations on strategic weapons of the United States and 
        the Russian Federation under the New START Treaty.
    (b) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Select 
                Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Foreign 
                Relations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Permanent 
                Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on 
                Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
            (2) New start treaty.--The term ``New START Treaty'' means 
        the Treaty between the United States of America and the Russian 
        Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation 
        of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on April 8, 2010, and 
        entered into force on February 5, 2011.

SEC. 1244. SENSE OF SENATE ON THE 70TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE NORTH 
              ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION.

    Commemorating the 70th anniversary of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO), the Senate--
            (1) recognizes the North Atlantic Treaty Organization as 
        the most successful military alliance in history, founded on 
        the principles of democracy, individual liberty, and the rule 
        of law;
            (2) commends the singular contributions of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization to the security, prosperity, and 
        freedom of its members;
            (3) upholds membership in the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization as a cornerstone of the security and national 
        defense of the United States;
            (4) affirms the ironclad commitment of the United States to 
        uphold its obligations under the North Atlantic Treaty, 
        including under Article 5 of such treaty;
            (5) honors the contributions of North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization allies to the security of the United States, 
        including the invocation of Article 5 of the North Atlantic 
        Treaty after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks against 
        the United States;
            (6) urges North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies to 
        uphold their obligations under Article 3 of the North Atlantic 
        Treaty to ``maintain and develop their individual and 
        collective capacity to resist armed attack'' by honoring the 
        Defense Investment Pledge made at the Wales Summit in 2014;
            (7) notes the commitment of North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization allies to contribute to strengthening their free 
        institutions, bringing about a better understanding of the 
        principles on which such institutions are founded and promoting 
        conditions of stability and well-being; and
            (8) welcomes efforts to reform and modernize the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization to meet current and future 
        threats, including though accelerated modernization, improved 
        readiness, command structure adaptation, and increased speed of 
        alliance decision-making.

SEC. 1245. SENSE OF SENATE ON UNITED STATES FORCE POSTURE IN EUROPE AND 
              THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the 2018 National Defense Strategy identifies long-term 
        strategic competition with the Russian Federation as a 
        principal priority for the Department of Defense that requires 
        increased and sustained investment;
            (2) despite significant progress through the European 
        Deterrence Initiative, the current force posture of the United 
        States is not yet sufficient to support the National Defense 
        Strategy;
            (3) due to the geostrategic location and capabilities of 
        the armed forces of the Republic of Poland, the Republic of 
        Poland is critical to deterring, defending against, and 
        defeating Russian aggression against North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization allies in Central and Eastern Europe; and
            (4) the United States should increase the persistent 
        presence of United States forces in the Republic of Poland, 
        including key combat enabler units such as warfighting 
        headquarters elements--
                    (A) to enhance deterrence against Russian 
                aggression; and
                    (B) to reduce the risk of executing Department of 
                Defense contingency plans.

SEC. 1246. SENSE OF SENATE ON UNITED STATES PARTNERSHIP WITH THE 
              REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA.

    It is the sense of the Senate that the United States should--
            (1) promote the enduring strategic partnership of the 
        United States with the Republic of Georgia;
            (2) support robust security sector assistance for the 
        Republic of Georgia, including defensive lethal assistance--
                    (A) to strengthen the defense capabilities and 
                readiness of the Republic of Georgia;
                    (B) to improve interoperability with North Atlantic 
                Treaty Organization (NATO) forces; and
                    (C) to bolster deterrence against aggression by the 
                Russian Federation;
            (3) enhance security in the Black Sea region by increasing 
        engagement and security cooperation with Black Sea countries, 
        including by increasing the frequency, scale, and scope of 
        North Atlantic Treaty Organization and other multilateral 
        exercises in the Black Sea region with the participation of the 
        Republic of Georgia and Ukraine; and
            (4) affirm support for the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization open door policy, including the eventual 
        membership of the Republic of Georgia in the North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization.

        Subtitle E--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

SEC. 1251. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO REDUCE THE TOTAL NUMBER OF 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES IN THE TERRITORY OF THE 
              REPUBLIC OF KOREA.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be 
used to reduce the total number of members of the Armed Forces in the 
territory of the Republic of Korea below 28,500 until 90 days after the 
date on which the Secretary of Defense certifies to the congressional 
defense committees the following:
            (1) Such a reduction is in the national security interest 
        of the United States and will not significantly undermine the 
        security of United States allies in the region.
            (2) Such a reduction is commensurate with a reduction in 
        the threat posed to the security of the United States and its 
        allies in the region by the conventional military forces of the 
        Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
            (3) The Secretary has appropriately consulted with allies 
        of the United States, including the Republic of Korea and 
        Japan, regarding such a reduction.

SEC. 1252. EXPANSION OF INDO-PACIFIC MARITIME SECURITY INITIATIVE.

    Section 1263(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 333 note) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new paragraphs:
            ``(8) The Federated States of Micronesia.
            ``(9) The Kingdom of Tonga.
            ``(10) Papua New Guinea.
            ``(11) The Republic of Fiji.
            ``(12) The Republic of the Marshall Islands.
            ``(13) The Republic of Palau.
            ``(14) The Republic of Vanuatu.
            ``(15) The Solomon Islands.''.

SEC. 1253. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND SECURITY 
              DEVELOPMENTS INVOLVING THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    Paragraph (26) of section 1202(b) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended 
to read as follows:
            ``(26) The relationship between Chinese overseas 
        investment, including the Belt and Road Initiative and the 
        Digital Silk Road, and Chinese security and military strategy 
        objectives, including--
                    ``(A) an assessment of Chinese investments or 
                projects likely, or with significant potential, to be 
                converted into military assets of the People's Republic 
                of China;
                    ``(B) an assessment of Chinese investments or 
                projects of greatest concern with respect to United 
                States national security interests;
                    ``(C) a description of any Chinese investment or 
                project linked to military cooperation with the country 
                in which the investment or project is located, such as 
                cooperation on satellite navigation or arms production; 
                and
                    ``(D) an assessment of any Chinese investment or 
                project, and any associated agreement, that--
                            ``(i) presents significant financial risk 
                        for the country in which the investment or 
                        project is located; or
                            ``(ii) may undermine the sovereignty of 
                        such country.''.

SEC. 1254. REPORT ON RESOURCING UNITED STATES DEFENSE REQUIREMENTS FOR 
              THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than January 31, 2020, the 
        Commander of United States Indo-Pacific Command shall submit to 
        the congressional defense committees a report containing the 
        independent assessment of the Commander with respect to the 
        activities and resources required, for fiscal years 2022 
        through 2026, to achieve the following objectives:
                    (A) The implementation of the National Defense 
                Strategy with respect to the Indo-Pacific region.
                    (B) The maintenance or restoration of the 
                comparative military advantage of the United States 
                with respect to the People's Republic of China.
                    (C) The reduction of the risk of executing 
                contingency plans of the Department of Defense.
            (2) Matters to be included.--The report required under 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the intended force structure 
                and posture of assigned and allocated forces within the 
                area of responsibility of United States Indo-Pacific 
                Command for fiscal year 2026 to achieve the objectives 
                described in paragraph (1).
                    (B) An assessment of capabilities requirements to 
                achieve such objectives.
                    (C) An assessment of logistics requirements, 
                including personnel, equipment, supplies, storage, and 
                maintenance needs to achieve such objectives.
                    (D) An identification of required infrastructure 
                and military construction investments to achieve such 
                objectives.
                    (E) An assessment of security cooperation 
                activities or resources required to achieve such 
                objectives.
                    (F) A plan to fully resource United States force 
                posture and capabilities, including--
                            (i) a detailed assessment of the resources 
                        necessary to address the elements described in 
                        subparagraphs (A) through (E), including 
                        specific cost estimates for priority 
                        investments or projects--
                                    (I) to increase joint force 
                                lethality;
                                    (II) to enhance force design and 
                                posture;
                                    (III) to support a robust exercise, 
                                experimentation, and innovation 
                                program; and
                                    (IV) to strengthen cooperation with 
                                allies and partners; and
                            (ii) a detailed timeline to achieve the 
                        intended force structure and posture described 
                        in subparagraph (A).
            (3) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) may be 
        submitted in classified form, but shall include an unclassified 
        summary.
            (4) Availability.--On submittal of the report to the 
        congressional defense committees, the Commander of United 
        States Indo-Pacific Command shall make the report available to 
        the Secretary of Defense, the Director of Cost Assessment and 
        Program Evaluation, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
        the Secretaries of the military departments, and the chiefs of 
        staff of each military service.
    (b) Briefings Required.--
            (1) Initial briefing.--Not later than March 15, 2020, the 
        Secretary of Defense, the Director of Cost Assessment and 
        Program Evaluation, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
        Staff shall provide to the congressional defense committees a 
        joint briefing, and documents as appropriate, with respect to 
        their assessments of the report submitted under subsection (a), 
        including their assessments of the feasibility and advisability 
        of the plan required by paragraph (2)(F) of that subsection.
            (2) Subsequent briefing.--Not later than March 31, 2020, 
        the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of the Army, and 
        the Secretary of the Navy shall provide to the congressional 
        defense committees a joint briefing, and documents as 
        appropriate, with respect to their assessments of the report 
        submitted under subsection (a), including their assessments of 
        the feasibility and advisability of the plan required by 
        paragraph (2)(F) of that subsection.

SEC. 1255. REPORT ON DISTRIBUTED LAY-DOWN OF UNITED STATES FORCES IN 
              THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION.

    (a) Review.--Acknowledging the pressing need to reduce the presence 
of the United States Marine Corps on Okinawa, Japan, and to accelerate 
adjustments to United States force posture in the Indo-Pacific region, 
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Government of Japan 
and other foreign governments as necessary, shall conduct a review of 
the planned distribution of members of the United States Armed Forces 
in Okinawa, Guam, Hawaii, Australia, and elsewhere that is contemplated 
in support of the joint statement of the United States-Japan Security 
Consultative Committee issued April 26, 2012, in the District of 
Columbia (April 27, 2012, in Tokyo, Japan) and revised on October 3, 
2013, in Tokyo, hereafter referred to as the ``distributed lay-down''.
    (b) Elements.--The review required by subsection (a) shall include 
an updated analysis of the distributed lay-down, including--
            (1) an assessment of the impact of the distributed lay-down 
        on the ability of the Armed Forces to respond to current and 
        future contingencies in the area of responsibility of United 
        States Indo-Pacific Command that reflects contingency plans of 
        the Department of the Defense;
            (2) the projected total cost, including any past or 
        projected changes in cost;
            (3) a description of the adequacy of current and expected 
        training resources at each location associated with the 
        distributed lay-down, including the ability to train against 
        the full spectrum of threats from near-peer or peer threats any 
        projected limitations due to political, environmental, or other 
        limiting factors;
            (4) an assessment of political support for United States 
        force presence from host countries and local communities and 
        populations;
            (5) an analysis of growth potential for increased force 
        size or training; and
            (6) an updated and detailed description of any military 
        construction projects required to execute the distributed lay-
        down.
    (c) Certification.--Not later than 15 days after the completion of 
the review required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees--
            (1) a certification that the Department of Defense will 
        continue implementation of the distributed lay-down; or
            (2) a notification that the Department of Defense intends 
        to seek revisions to the distributed lay-down in consultation 
        with the Government of Japan.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the completion of the 
review required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall 
provide the congressional defense committees a report on the results of 
the review, including--
            (1) a detailed description of any recommendations for 
        revisions to the distributed lay-down such as alternative 
        locations for basing in Alaska, Hawaii, the continental United 
        States, Japan, and Oceania; and
            (2) an assessment of the results of the review and 
        recommendations described in paragraph (1) by the Chairman of 
        the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    (e) Comptroller General Report.--Not later than 120 days after the 
submission of the report required by subsection (d), the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report containing an analysis of the current status of the 
distributed lay-down, the review described in subsection (a), and the 
report described in subsection (d).

SEC. 1256. SENSE OF SENATE ON THE UNITED STATES-JAPAN ALLIANCE AND 
              DEFENSE COOPERATION.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States-Japan alliance remains the 
        cornerstone of peace and security for a free and open Indo-
        Pacific region;
            (2) although the United States Government does not take a 
        position on sovereignty of the Senkaku Islands, the United 
        States acknowledges that the islands are under the 
        administration of Japan and opposes any unilateral actions that 
        would seek to undermine their administration by Japan;
            (3) the unilateral actions of a third party will not affect 
        United States acknowledgment of the administration of Japan 
        over the Senkaku Islands, and the United States remains 
        committed under the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security 
        with Japan to respond to any armed attack in the territories 
        under the administration of Japan;
            (4) Japan continues to make contributions to regional 
        security and prosperity that make the United States safer and 
        more prosperous;
            (5) the Government of Japan has played a critical 
        leadership role in promoting a free and open Indo-Pacific, 
        which is a primary objective of United States national security 
        policy, including through its efforts concerning trade, 
        investment, energy, rule of law, and good governance;
            (6) the Government of Japan has been instrumental improving 
        cooperation between the United States, Japan, Australia, and 
        India as well as improving relations with countries in the 
        Association of Southeast Asian Nations;
            (7) the Government of Japan has been a strong supporter of 
        United States efforts to achieve the complete and verifiable 
        denuclearization of North Korea, and has played a leading role 
        in enforcing United Nations Security Council Resolution 
        sanctions against North Korea;
            (8) the Government of Japan has taken significant steps to 
        enhance military capabilities for its own defense while 
        increasing its contributions to collective security, including 
        through passage of legislation concerning collective self-
        defense, the publication of the National Defense Program 
        Guidelines and the Mid-Term Defense Program, and record 
        investments in advanced defense capabilities in the maritime, 
        air, space, and cyber domains;
            (9) while it should continue to increase its defense 
        spending in order to make a greater contribution to allied 
        defense capabilities, the Government of Japan has made among 
        the most significant ``burden sharing'' contributions of any 
        United States ally, including through direct cost sharing, 
        paying for the realignment of United States forces currently 
        stationed in Okinawa, community support, and other alliance-
        related expenditures;
            (10) upcoming negotiations concerning a new Special 
        Measures Agreement between the United States and Japan should 
        be conducted in a spirit consistent with prior negotiations on 
        the basis of common interest and mutual respect; and
            (11) the United States and Japan should take actions to 
        enhance United States-Japan defense cooperation, including 
        through increased use of combined bases for allied operations, 
        further integration of allied command structures, consideration 
        of the establishment of a combined joint task force, enhanced 
        combined contingency planning for both conventional conflict 
        and so-called ``gray zone'' incidents, and opportunities for 
        co-development of defense equipment and technology cooperation.

SEC. 1257. SENSE OF SENATE ON ENHANCEMENT OF THE UNITED STATES-TAIWAN 
              DEFENSE RELATIONSHIP.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) and 
        the ``Six Assurances'' are both cornerstones of United States 
        relations with Taiwan;
            (2) the United States should strengthen defense and 
        security cooperation with Taiwan to support the development of 
        capable, ready, and modern defense forces necessary for Taiwan 
        to maintain a sufficient self-defense capability;
            (3) the United States should strongly support the 
        acquisition by Taiwan of defense articles and services through 
        foreign military sales, direct commercial sales, and industrial 
        cooperation, with an emphasis on anti-ship, coastal defense, 
        anti-armor, air defense, undersea warfare, advanced command, 
        control, communications, computer, intelligence, surveillance, 
        and reconnaissance (C4ISR), and resilient command and control 
        capabilities that support the asymmetric defense strategy of 
        Taiwan;
            (4) the President and Congress should determine the nature 
        and quantity of such defense articles and services based solely 
        upon their judgment of the needs of Taiwan as required by the 
        Taiwan Relations Act;
            (5) the United States should continue efforts to improve 
        the predictability of United States arms sales to Taiwan by 
        ensuring timely review of and response to requests of Taiwan 
        for defense articles and services;
            (6) the Secretary of Defense should promote policies 
        concerning exchanges that enhance the security of Taiwan 
        including--
                    (A) opportunities with Taiwan for practical 
                training and military exercises that--
                            (i) enable Taiwan to maintain a sufficient 
                        self-defense capability, as described in 
                        section 3(a) of the Taiwan Relations Act (22 
                        U.S.C. 3302(a)); and
                            (ii) emphasize capabilities consistent with 
                        the asymmetric defense strategy of Taiwan;
                    (B) exchanges between senior defense officials and 
                general officers of the United States and Taiwan, 
                consistent with the Taiwan Travel Act (Public Law 115-
                135), especially for the purpose of enhancing 
                cooperation on defense planning and improving the 
                interoperability of United States and Taiwan forces; 
                and
                    (C) opportunities for exchanges between junior 
                officers and senior enlisted personnel of the United 
                States and Taiwan;
            (7) the United States and Taiwan should expand cooperation 
        in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief;
            (8) the Secretary of Defense should consider supporting the 
        visit of a United States hospital ship to Taiwan as part of the 
        annual ``Pacific Partnership'' mission, as well as the 
        participation of Taiwan medical vessels in appropriate 
        exercises with the United States, in order to improve disaster 
        response planning and preparedness; and
            (9) the Secretary of Defense should continue regular 
        transits of United States Navy vessels through the Taiwan 
        Strait, commend the armed forces of France for their April 6, 
        2019, legal transit of the Taiwan Strait, and encourage allies 
        and partners to follow suit in conducting such transits, in 
        order to demonstrate the commitment of the United States and 
        its allies and partners to fly, sail, and operate anywhere 
        international law allows.

SEC. 1258. SENSE OF SENATE ON UNITED STATES-INDIA DEFENSE RELATIONSHIP.

    It is the sense of the Senate that the United States should 
strengthen and enhance its major defense partnership with India and 
work toward the following mutual security objectives:
            (1) Expanding engagement in multilateral frameworks, 
        including the quadrilateral dialogue among the United States, 
        India, Japan, and Australia, to promote regional security and 
        defend shared values and common interests in the rules-based 
        order.
            (2) Increasing the frequency and scope of exchanges between 
        senior civilian officials and military officers of the United 
        States and India to support the development and implementation 
        of the major defense partnership.
            (3) Exploring additional steps to implement the major 
        defense partner designation to better facilitate 
        interoperability, information sharing, and appropriate 
        technology transfers.
            (4) Pursuing strategic initiatives to help develop the 
        defense capabilities of India.
            (5) Conducting additional combined exercises with India in 
        the Persian Gulf, Indian Ocean, and western Pacific regions.
            (6) Furthering cooperative efforts to promote stability and 
        security in Afghanistan.

SEC. 1259. SENSE OF SENATE ON SECURITY COMMITMENTS TO THE GOVERNMENTS 
              OF JAPAN AND THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND TRILATERAL 
              COOPERATION AMONG THE UNITED STATES, JAPAN, AND THE 
              REPUBLIC OF KOREA.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States remains committed to its alliances 
        with Japan and the Republic of Korea, which are--
                    (A) the cornerstones of peace and stability in the 
                Indo-Pacific region; and
                    (B) based on the shared values of democracy, the 
                rule of law, free and open markets, and respect for 
                human rights;
            (2) cooperation among the United States, Japan, and the 
        Republic of Korea is essential for confronting global 
        challenges, including--
                    (A) preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass 
                destruction;
                    (B) combating piracy;
                    (C) assisting victims of conflict and disaster 
                worldwide;
                    (D) protecting maritime security; and
                    (E) ensuring freedom of navigation, commerce, and 
                overflight in the Indo-Pacific region;
            (3) the United States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea 
        share deep concern that the nuclear and ballistic missile 
        programs, the conventional military capabilities, and the 
        chemical and biological weapons programs of the Democratic 
        People's Republic of Korea, together with the long history of 
        aggression and provocation by the Democratic People's Republic 
        of Korea, pose grave threats to peace and stability on the 
        Korean Peninsula and in the Indo-Pacific region;
            (4) the United States welcomes greater security cooperation 
        with and between Japan and the Republic of Korea to promote 
        mutual interests and address shared concerns, including--
                    (A) the bilateral military intelligence-sharing 
                pact between Japan and the Republic of Korea, signed on 
                November 23, 2016; and
                    (B) the trilateral intelligence sharing agreement 
                among the United States, Japan, and the Republic of 
                Korea, signed on December 29, 2015; and
            (5) recognizing that the security of the United States, 
        Japan, and the Republic of Korea are intertwined because they 
        face common threats, including from the Democratic People's 
        Republic of Korea, the United States welcomes and encourages 
        deeper trilateral defense coordination and cooperation, 
        including through expanded exercises, training, senior-level 
        exchanges, and information sharing.

SEC. 1260. SENSE OF SENATE ON ENHANCED COOPERATION WITH PACIFIC ISLAND 
              COUNTRIES TO ESTABLISH OPEN-SOURCE INTELLIGENCE FUSION 
              CENTERS IN THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Pacific Island countries in the Indo-Pacific region 
        are critical partners of the United States;
            (2) the United States should take steps to enhance 
        collaboration with Pacific Island countries; and
            (3) United States Indo-Pacific Command should pursue the 
        establishment of one or more open-source intelligence fusion 
        centers in the Indo-Pacific region to enhance cooperation with 
        Pacific Island countries, which may include participation in an 
        existing fusion center of a partner or ally in lieu of 
        establishing an entirely new fusion center.

SEC. 1261. SENSE OF SENATE ON ENHANCING DEFENSE AND SECURITY 
              COOPERATION WITH THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States and the Republic of Singapore have 
        built a strong, enduring, and forward-looking strategic 
        partnership based on long-standing and mutually beneficial 
        cooperation, including through security, defense, economic, and 
        people-to-people ties;
            (2) robust security cooperation between the United States 
        and the Republic of Singapore is crucial to promoting peace and 
        stability in the Indo-Pacific region;
            (3) the status of the Republic of Singapore as a major 
        security cooperation partner of the United States, as 
        recognized in the 2005 Strategic Framework Agreement between 
        the United States and the Republic of Singapore for a Closer 
        Partnership in Defense and Security, plays an important role in 
        the global network of strategic partnerships, especially in 
        promoting maritime security and countering terrorism;
            (4) the United States highly values the Republic of 
        Singapore's provision of access to its military facilities, 
        which supports the continued security presence of the United 
        States in Southeast Asia and across the Indo-Pacific region;
            (5) the United States should continue to welcome the 
        presence of the Singapore Armed Forces in the United States for 
        exercises and training, and should consider opportunities to 
        expand such activities at additional locations in the United 
        States, as appropriate; and
            (6) as the United States and the Republic of Singapore 
        negotiate the renewal of the 1990 Memorandum of Understanding 
        Regarding the United States Use of Facilities in Singapore, the 
        United States should--
                    (A) continue to enhance defense and security 
                cooperation with the Republic of Singapore to promote 
                peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific region based on 
                common interests and shared values;
                    (B) reinforce the status of the Republic of 
                Singapore as a major security cooperation partner of 
                the United States;
                    (C) enhance defense cooperation in the military, 
                policy, strategic, and technological spheres, 
                especially concerning maritime security and 
                counterterrorism, counterpiracy, humanitarian 
                assistance and disaster relief, cybersecurity, and 
                biosecurity; and
                    (D) explore additional steps to better facilitate 
                military interoperability and information sharing 
                through appropriate technology transfers.

                          Subtitle F--Reports

SEC. 1271. REPORT ON COST IMPOSITION STRATEGY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report describing the cost 
imposition strategies of the Department of Defense with respect to the 
People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
            (1) A description of the manner in which the future-years 
        defense program and current operational concepts of the 
        Department are designed to impose costs on the People's 
        Republic of China and the Russian Federation, including--
                    (A) political, economic, monetary, human capital, 
                and technology costs; and
                    (B) costs associated with military efficiency and 
                effectiveness.
            (2) A description of the policies and processes of the 
        Department relating to the development and execution of cost 
        imposition strategies.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
classified form, and shall include an unclassified summary.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1281. NATO SPECIAL OPERATIONS HEADQUARTERS.

    Section 1244 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2541), as most recently amended 
by section 1280 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1080), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``each of fiscal years 
        2013 through 2020'' and inserting ``each of fiscal years 2013 
        through 2025'';
            (2) by striking subsection (c); and
            (3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).

SEC. 1282. MODIFICATIONS OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO ACQUISITION AND 
              CROSS-SERVICING AGREEMENTS.

    (a) Reimbursement for Cost of Logistic Support, Supplies, and 
Services.--Subsection (a) of section 2342 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``in return for'' and all 
        that follows through the period at the end and inserting the 
        following: ``in return for--
                    ``(A) the reciprocal provisions of logistic 
                support, supplies, and services by such government or 
                organization to elements of the armed forces; or
                    ``(B) cash reimbursement for the fully burdened 
                cost of the logistic support, supplies, and services 
                provided by the United States.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(3) A reciprocal transaction for logistic support, 
        supplies, and services shall be reconciled not later than one 
        year after the date on which the transaction occurs, at which 
        time the Secretary of Defense shall seek cash reimbursement for 
        the fully burdened cost of the logistic support, supplies, and 
        services provided by the United States that has not been offset 
        by the value of the logistic support, supplies, and services 
        provided by the recipient government or organization.
            ``(4) An agreement entered into under this section shall 
        require any accrued credits or liabilities resulting from an 
        unequal exchange of logistic support, supplies, and services to 
        be liquidated not less frequently than once every five 
        years.''.
    (b) Designation and Notice of Intent to Enter Into Agreement With 
Non-NATO Country.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(b)(1) The Secretary of Defense may not designate a country for 
an agreement under this section unless--
            ``(A) the Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary 
        of State, determines that the designation of such country for 
        such purpose is in the interest of the national security of the 
        United States; and
            ``(B) in the case of a country that is not a member of the 
        North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the Secretary submits to 
        the appropriate committees of Congress notice of the intended 
        designation not less than 30 days before the date on which such 
        country is designated by the Secretary under subsection (a).
    ``(2) In the case of a country that is not a member of the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization, the Secretary of Defense may not enter 
into an agreement under this section unless the Secretary submits to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a notice of intent to enter into 
such an agreement not less than 30 days before the date on which the 
Secretary enters into the agreement.''.
    (c) Oversight and Monitoring Responsibilities.--Such section is 
further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (f) through (h) as 
        subsections (g) through (i), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f)(1) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy shall have 
primary responsibility within the Office of the Secretary of Defense 
for oversight of agreements entered into and activities carried out 
under the authority of this subchapter.
    ``(2) The Director of the Defense Security Cooperation Agency shall 
have primary responsibility for--
            ``(A) monitoring the implementation of such agreements; and
            ``(B) accounting for logistic support, supplies, and 
        services received or provided under such authority.''.
    (d) Regulations.--Subsection (g) of such section, as redesignated 
by subsection (c)(1), is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g)(1) Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to 
ensure that--
            ``(A) contracts entered into under this subchapter are free 
        from self-dealing, bribery, and conflict of interests;
            ``(B) adequate processes and controls are in place to 
        provide for the accurate accounting of logistic support, 
        supplies, and services received or provided under the authority 
        of this subchapter; and
            ``(C) personnel responsible for accounting for logistic 
        support, supplies, and services received or provided under such 
        authority are fully trained and aware of such responsibilities.
            ``(2)(A) Not later than 270 days after the issuance of the 
        regulations under paragraph (1), the Comptroller General of the 
        United States shall conduct a review of the implementation by 
        the Secretary of such regulations.
            ``(B) The review conducted under subparagraph (A) shall--
                    ``(i) assess the effectiveness of such regulations 
                and the implementation of such regulations to ensure 
                the effective management and oversight of an agreement 
                under subsection (a)(1); and
                    ``(ii) include any other matter the Comptroller 
                General considers relevant.''.
    (e) Reports.--Subsection (h) of such section, as redesignated by 
subsection (c)(1), is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``in effect'' and 
        inserting ``that have entered into force or were applied 
        provisionally'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``date on which the Secretary'' and 
                all that follows through the period at the end and 
                inserting ``dates on which the Secretary notified 
                Congress--
                    ``(A) pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(B) of the 
                designation of such country under subsection (a); and
                    ``(B) pursuant to subsection (b)(2) of the intent 
                of the Secretary to enter into the agreement.'';
            (3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3) With respect to each such agreement, the dollar 
        amounts of--
                    ``(A) each class or type of logistic support, 
                supplies, and services provided in the preceding fiscal 
                year; and
                    ``(B) reciprocal provisions of logistic support, 
                supplies, and services, or cash reimbursements, 
                received in such fiscal year.'';
            (4) by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
            ``(4) With respect to each such agreement, the dollar 
        amounts of--
                    ``(A) each class or type of logistic support, 
                supplies, and services received; and
                    ``(B) reciprocal provisions of logistic support, 
                supplies, and services, or cash reimbursements 
                provided.'';
            (5) by striking paragraph (5); and
            (6) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(5) With respect to any transaction for logistic support, 
        supplies, and services that has not been reconciled more than 
        one year after the date on which the transaction occurred, a 
        description of the transaction that includes the following:
                    ``(A) The date on which the transaction occurred.
                    ``(B) The country or organization to which logistic 
                support, supplies, and services were provided.
                    ``(C) The value of the transaction.
            ``(6) An explanation of any waiver granted under section 
        2347(c) during the preceding fiscal year, including an 
        identification of the relevant contingency operation or non-
        combat operation.''.

SEC. 1283. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ANTI-
              TUNNEL COOPERATION ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1279 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (22 U.S.C. 8606 note) is 
amended, in the first sentence, by striking ``and to establish 
capabilities for countering unmanned aerial systems''.
    (b) Exception to Matching Contribution Requirement.--Subsection 
(b)(3) of such section is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Support'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), support''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Exception.--Subject to paragraph (4), the 
                Secretary may use amounts available to the Secretary in 
                excess of the amount contributed by the Government of 
                Israel to provide support under this subsection for 
                costs associated with any unique national requirement 
                identified by the United States with respect to anti-
                tunnel capabilities.''.

SEC. 1284. UNITED STATES-ISRAEL COOPERATION TO COUNTER UNMANNED AERIAL 
              SYSTEMS.

    (a) Authority to Establish Capabilities to Counter Unmanned Aerial 
Systems.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, upon request of 
        the Ministry of Defense of Israel and in consultation with the 
        Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, 
        is authorized to carry out research, development, test, and 
        evaluation, on a joint basis with Israel, to establish 
        capabilities for countering unmanned aerial systems that 
        threaten the United States or Israel. Any activities carried 
        out pursuant to such authority shall be conducted in a manner 
        that appropriately protects sensitive technology and 
        information and the national security interests of the United 
        States and Israel.
            (2) Report.--The activities described in paragraph (1) and 
        subsection (b) may not be carried out until after the Secretary 
        of Defense submits to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report setting forth the following:
                    (A) A memorandum of agreement between the United 
                States and Israel regarding sharing of research and 
                development costs for the capabilities described in 
                paragraph (1), and any supporting documents.
                    (B) A certification that the memorandum of 
                agreement--
                            (i) requires sharing of costs of projects, 
                        including in-kind support, between the United 
                        States and Israel;
                            (ii) establishes a framework to negotiate 
                        the rights to any intellectual property 
                        developed under the memorandum of agreement; 
                        and
                            (iii) requires the United States Government 
                        to receive semiannual reports on expenditure of 
                        funds, if any, by the Government of Israel, 
                        including a description of what the funds have 
                        been used for, when funds were expended, and an 
                        identification of entities that expended the 
                        funds.
    (b) Support in Connection With the Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized to 
        provide maintenance and sustainment support to Israel for the 
        research, development, test, and evaluation activities 
        authorized in subsection (a)(1). Such authority includes 
        authority to install equipment necessary to carry out such 
        research, development, test, and evaluation.
            (2) Report.--Support may not be provided under paragraph 
        (1) until 15 days after the Secretary submits to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth a 
        detailed description of the support to be provided.
            (3) Matching contribution.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), support may not be provided under this subsection 
                unless the Government of Israel contributes an amount 
                not less than the amount of support to be so provided 
                to the program, project, or activity for which the 
                support is to be so provided in the calendar year in 
                which the support is provided.
                    (B) Exception.--Subject to paragraph (4), the 
                Secretary may use amounts available to the Secretary in 
                excess of the amount contributed by the Government of 
                Israel to provide support under this subsection for 
                costs associated with any unique national requirement 
                identified by the United States with respect to 
                countering unmanned aerial systems.
            (4) Annual limitation on amount.--The amount of support 
        provided under this subsection in any year may not exceed 
        $25,000,000.
            (5) Use of certain amounts for rdt&e activities in the 
        united states.--Of the amount provided by the United States in 
        support under paragraph (1), not less than 50 percent of such 
        amount shall be used for research, development, test, and 
        evaluation activities in the United States in connection with 
        such support.
    (c) Lead Agency.--The Secretary of Defense shall designate an 
appropriate research and development entity of a military department as 
the lead agency of the Department of Defense in carrying out this 
section.
    (d) Semiannual Reports.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress on a semiannual basis a report 
that contains a copy of the most recent semiannual report provided by 
the Government of Israel to the Department of Defense pursuant to 
subsection (a)(2)(B)(iii).
    (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on Homeland Security, the 
        Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Homeland Security, the 
        Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee 
        on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
    (f) Sunset.--The authority in this section to carry out activities 
described in subsection (a), and to provide support described in 
subsection (b), shall expire on December 31, 2024.

SEC. 1285. MODIFICATION OF INITIATIVE TO SUPPORT PROTECTION OF NATIONAL 
              SECURITY ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS FROM UNDUE INFLUENCE AND 
              OTHER SECURITY THREATS.

    Section 1286(c) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(8) A list, developed in consultation with the Bureau of 
        Industry and Security of the Department of Commerce, the 
        Director of National Intelligence, and United States academic 
        institutions that conduct significant Department of Defense 
        research or engineering activities, of academic institutions of 
        the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation 
        that--
                    ``(A) are associated with a defense program of the 
                People's Republic of China or the Russian Federation, 
                including any university heavily engaged in military 
                research;
                    ``(B) are known--
                            ``(i) to recruit individuals for the 
                        purpose of advancing the talent and 
                        capabilities of such a defense program; or
                            ``(ii) to provide misleading transcripts or 
                        otherwise attempt to conceal the connections of 
                        an individual or institution to such a defense 
                        program; or
                    ``(C) pose a serious risk of intangible transfers 
                of defense or engineering technology and research.''.

SEC. 1286. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF HUMAN RIGHTS SITUATION IN 
              HONDURAS.

    (a) Assessment Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        select and enter into an agreement with an independent think 
        tank or a federally funded research and development center to 
        conduct an analysis and assessment of the compliance of the 
        military and security forces of Honduras with international 
        human rights laws and standards.
            (2) Matters to be included.--The assessment under paragraph 
        (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the military-to-military 
                activities between the United States and Honduras, 
                including the manner in which Department of Defense 
                engagement with the military and security forces of 
                Honduras supports the National Defense Strategy.
                    (B) An analysis and assessment of the activities of 
                the military and security forces of Honduras with 
                respect to human rights activists.
                    (C) With respect to United States national security 
                interests, an analysis and assessment of the challenges 
                posed by corruption within the military and security 
                forces of Honduras.
                    (D) An analysis of--
                            (i) the security assistance provided to 
                        Honduras by the Department of Defense during 
                        the 7-year period preceding the date of the 
                        enactment of this Act; and
                            (ii) the extent to which such assistance 
                        has improved accountability, transparency, and 
                        compliance to international human rights laws 
                        and standards in the security and military 
                        operations of the Government of Honduras.
                    (E) Recommendations on the development of future 
                security assistance to Honduras that prioritizes--
                            (i) compliance of the military and security 
                        forces of Honduras with human rights laws and 
                        standards;
                            (ii) citizen security; and
                            (iii) the advancement of United States 
                        national security interests with respect to 
                        countering the proliferation of illegal 
                        narcotics flows through Honduras.
                    (F) Any other matters the Secretary considers 
                necessary and relevant to United States national 
                security interests.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the entity selected under subsection (a) shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
results of the assessment conducted under that subsection.
    (c) Department of Defense Support.--The Secretary shall provide the 
entity selected under subsection (a) with timely access to appropriate 
information, data, and analyses necessary to carry out the assessment 
in a thorough and independent manner.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1287. UNITED STATES CENTRAL COMMAND POSTURE REVIEW.

    (a) Comprehensive Review Required.--
            (1) In general.--To clarify the near-term policy and 
        strategy of the United States under the National Defense 
        Strategy with respect to United States Central Command, the 
        Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of 
        State and the Director of National Intelligence, as 
        appropriate, shall conduct a comprehensive review of United 
        States military force posture and capabilities in the United 
        States Central Command area of responsibility during the 
        posture review period.
            (2) Elements.--The review conducted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include, for the posture review period, the following 
        elements:
                    (A) An assessment of the threats and challenges in 
                the United States Central Command area of 
                responsibility, including threats and challenges posed 
                to United States interests by near-peer competitors.
                    (B) An explanation of the policy and strategic 
                frameworks for addressing the threats and challenges 
                identified under subparagraph (A).
                    (C) An identification of current and future United 
                States military force posture and capabilities 
                necessary to counter threats, deter conflict, and 
                defend United States national security interests in the 
                United States Central Command area of responsibility.
                    (D) An assessment of the basing, cooperative 
                security locations, and other infrastructure necessary 
                to support steady state operations in support of the 
                theater campaign plan and potential contingencies that 
                may arise in or affect the United States Central 
                Command area of responsibility, including any potential 
                efficiencies and risk mitigation measures to be taken.
                    (E) A description of methods to mitigate risk that 
                may result from adjustments to United States military 
                force posture and capabilities deployed in the United 
                States Central Command area of responsibility.
                    (F) An explanation of the manner in which a 
                modernized global operating model or dynamic force 
                employment approach may yield efficiencies and increase 
                strategic flexibility while achieving United States 
                military objectives in the United States Central 
                Command area of responsibility.
                    (G) An articulation of the United States 
                nonmilitary efforts and activities necessary to enable 
                the achievement of United States national security 
                interests in the United States Central Command area of 
                responsibility.
                    (H) Any other matter the Secretary considers 
                relevant.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
        results of the review conducted under subsection (a).
            (2) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (c) Posture Review Period Defined.--In this section, the term 
``posture review period'' means the period beginning on the date that 
is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on 
the date that is 15 years after such date of enactment.

SEC. 1288. REPORTS ON EXPENSES INCURRED FOR IN-FLIGHT REFUELING OF 
              SAUDI COALITION AIRCRAFT CONDUCTING MISSIONS RELATING TO 
              CIVIL WAR IN YEMEN.

    (a) Reports Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and every 30 days thereafter, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress detailing the expenses incurred by the 
        United States in providing in-flight refueling services for 
        Saudi or Saudi-led coalition non-United States aircraft 
        conducting missions as part of the civil war in Yemen during 
        the period of March 1, 2015, through November 11, 2018, and the 
        extent to which such expenses have been reimbursed by members 
        of the Saudi-led coalition.
            (2) Elements.--Each report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) The total expenses incurred by the United 
                States in providing in-flight refueling services, 
                including fuel, flight hours, and other applicable 
                expenses, to Saudi or Saudi-led coalition, non-United 
                States aircraft conducting missions as part of the 
                civil war in Yemen.
                    (B) The amount of the expenses described in 
                subparagraph (A) that has been reimbursed by each 
                member of the Saudi-led coalition.
                    (C) Any action taken by the United States to recoup 
                the remaining expenses described in subparagraph (A), 
                including any commitments by members of the Saudi-led 
                coalition to reimburse the United States for such 
                expenses.
            (3) Sunset.--The reporting requirement under paragraph (1) 
        shall cease to be effective on the date on which the Secretary 
        certifies to the appropriate committees of Congress that all 
        expenses incurred by the United States in providing in-flight 
        refueling services for Saudi or Saudi-led coalition non-United 
        States aircraft conducting missions as part of the civil war in 
        Yemen during the period of March 1, 2015, through November 11, 
        2018, have been reimbursed.
    (b) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (4) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 1289. SENSE OF SENATE ON SECURITY CONCERNS WITH RESPECT TO LEASING 
              ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE PORT OF HAIFA IN ISRAEL.

    It is the sense of the Senate that the United States--
            (1) has an interest in the future forward presence of 
        United States naval vessels at the Port of Haifa in Israel but 
        has serious security concerns with respect to the leasing 
        arrangements of the Port of Haifa as of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act; and
            (2) should urge the Government of Israel to consider the 
        security implications of foreign investment in Israel.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

SEC. 1301. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COOPERATIVE 
              THREAT REDUCTION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Of the $338,700,000 authorized to be appropriated 
to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020 in section 301 and 
made available by the funding table in division D for the Department of 
Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program established under section 
1321 of the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 
U.S.C. 3711), the following amounts may be obligated for the purposes 
specified:
            (1) For strategic offensive arms elimination, $492,000.
            (2) For chemical weapons destruction, $12,856,000.
            (3) For global nuclear security, $33,919,000.
            (4) For biological threat reduction, $183,642,000.
            (5) For proliferation prevention, $79,869,000.
            (6) For activities designated as Other Assessments/
        Administrative Costs, $27,922,000.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in division D for the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program shall be available for obligation 
for fiscal years 2020, 2021, and 2022.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1402. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and 
Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501.
    (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
(a) are authorized for--
            (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions 
        in accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
        Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
            (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the 
        United States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.

SEC. 1403. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1404. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1405. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501, for use of the Armed Forces and other activities and 
agencies of the Department of Defense in providing for the health of 
eligible beneficiaries.

                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

SEC. 1411. MODIFICATION OF PROHIBITION ON ACQUISITION OF SENSITIVE 
              MATERIALS FROM NON-ALLIED FOREIGN NATIONS.

    (a) Expansion of Materials Covered by Prohibition on Sale From 
National Defense Stockpile.--Subsection (a)(2) of section 2533c of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding 
subparagraph (A), by striking ``covered material'' and inserting 
``material''.
    (b) Inclusion of Tantalum in Definition of Covered Materials.--
Subsection (d)(1) of such section is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) tantalum.''.

                Subtitle C--Armed Forces Retirement Home

SEC. 1421. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT 
              HOME.

    There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $64,300,000 
for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.

SEC. 1422. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR RESIDENCE AT THE ARMED FORCES 
              RETIREMENT HOME.

    (a) Expansion of Eligibility to Certain Members With Non-regular 
Service.--Section 1512(a) of the Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 
1991 (24 U.S.C. 412(a)) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``active'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``are 60 years of age or 
        over and'' and
            (3) by adding the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Persons who are eligible for retired pay under 
        chapter 1223 of title 10, United States Code, and--
                    ``(A) are eligible for care under section 1710 of 
                title 38, United States Code;
                    ``(B) are enrolled in coverage under chapter 55 of 
                title 10, United States Code; or
                    ``(C) are enrolled in a qualified health plan 
                acceptable to the Chief Operating Officer.''.
    (b) Parity of Monthly Fees.--Paragraph (2) of section 1514(c) of 
the Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 414(c)) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(2)(A) The fee shall be fixed as a percentage of the monthly 
income and monthly payments (including Federal payments) received by a 
resident. The percentage shall be the same for each facility of the 
Retirement Home. The Secretary of Defense may make any adjustment in 
the percentage that the Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(B) The amount of the monthly income and monthly payments 
calculated under subparagraph (A) for a resident accepted under section 
1512(a)(5) may not be less than the current monthly retirement pay for 
equivalent active duty service as determined by the Chief Operating 
Officer, except as the Chief Operating Officer may otherwise provide 
due to compelling personal circumstances of the resident.''.
    (c) Pay Deductions.--Section 1007(i) of title 37, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by inserting ``or compensation, as 
                applicable,'' after ``pay''; and
                    (B) by striking ``on active duty'';
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Board'' and inserting 
        ``Chief Operating Officer''; and
            (3) by striking paragraph (4).
    (d) Admission Fees for Residents Based on Non-regular Service.--
Section 1514 of the Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991, as 
amended by subsection (b), is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (c) and (d), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection (b):
    ``(b) Admission Fees for Certain Residents.--The Administrator of 
each facility of the Retirement Home may also collect a fee upon 
admission from a resident accepted under section 412(a)(5) equal to the 
deductions then in effect under section 1007(i)(1) of title 37, United 
States Code, for each year of non-regular service of the resident 
before the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2020.''; and
            (3) in subsection (c), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by 
        striking ``subsection (a)'' and inserting ``subsections (a) and 
        (b)''.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 1431. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY 
              DEMONSTRATION FUND FOR CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH 
              CARE CENTER, ILLINOIS.

    (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by section 1405 and available for the Defense Health 
Program for operation and maintenance, $127,000,000 may be transferred 
by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund 
established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such section 1704, 
any funds so transferred shall be treated as amounts authorized and 
appropriated specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
    (b) Use of Transferred Funds.--For the purposes of subsection (b) 
of such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred 
under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

         Subtitle A--Authorization of Additional Appropriations

SEC. 1501. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize appropriations for the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020 to provide additional funds 
for overseas contingency operations being carried out by the Armed 
Forces.

SEC. 1502. OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the Department of Defense for overseas contingency operations in 
such amounts as may be designated as provided in section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(ii)).

SEC. 1503. PROCUREMENT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4102.

SEC. 1504. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4202.

SEC. 1505. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4302.

SEC. 1506. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
military personnel, as specified in the funding table in section 4402.

SEC. 1507. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.

SEC. 1508. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4502.

SEC. 1509. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.

SEC. 1510. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4502.

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

SEC. 1521. TREATMENT AS ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATIONS.

    The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are in 
addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act.

SEC. 1522. SPECIAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--
            (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
        Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, 
        the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made 
        available to the Department of Defense in this title for fiscal 
        year 2020 between any such authorizations for that fiscal year 
        (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so 
        transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same 
        purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
            (2) Limitation.--The total amount of authorizations that 
        the Secretary may transfer under the authority of this 
        subsection may not exceed $2,500,000,000.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--Transfers under this section shall be 
subject to the same terms and conditions as transfers under section 
1001.
    (c) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided by this 
section is in addition to the transfer authority provided under section 
1001.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

                   PART I--UNITED STATES SPACE FORCE

SEC. 1601. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR SPACE POLICY.

    Section 138(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) One of the Assistant Secretaries is the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Space Policy. The principal duty of the Assistant 
Secretary shall be the overall supervision of policy of the Department 
of Defense for space warfighting.''.

SEC. 1602. PRINCIPAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE FOR 
              SPACE ACQUISITION AND INTEGRATION.

    (a) Redesignation of Principal Assistant for Space as Principal 
Assistant for Space Acquisition and Integration.--
            (1) In general.--The Principal Assistant to the Secretary 
        of the Air Force for Space is hereby redesignated as the 
        Principal Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force for Space 
        Acquisition and Integration.
            (2) References.--Any reference to the Principal Assistant 
        to the Secretary of the Air Force for Space in any law, 
        regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United 
        States shall be deemed to be a reference to the Principal 
        Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force for Space 
        Acquisition and Integration.
    (b) Codification of Position and Responsibilities.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 903 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating section 9018 as section 9018a; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting after section 9017 the following 
                new section 9018:
``Sec. 9018. Principal Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force for 
              Space Acquisition and Integration
    ``(a)(1) There is within the Office of the Secretary of the Air 
Force a Principal Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force for Space 
Acquisition and Integration, who shall be appointed from civilian life 
by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    ``(2) The individual serving as Principal Assistant shall have the 
protocol equivalent in the Department of Defense of an officer in the 
armed forces serving in a general or admiral grade.
    ``(b) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
Secretary of the Air Force, the Principal Assistant to the Secretary of 
the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration shall do as 
follows:
            ``(1) Be responsible for all acquisition and integration of 
        the Air Force for space systems and programs, including in 
        support of the Commander of the United States Space Force under 
        section 9064 of this title.
            ``(2) Serve as the senior acquisition executive under 
        section 1704 of this title for the Air Force for acquisition 
        for space systems and programs, including for all major defense 
        acquisition programs under chapter 144 of this title for space.
            ``(3) Oversee and direct each of the following:
                    ``(A) The Space Rapid Capabilities Office under 
                section 2273a of this title.
                    ``(B) The Space and Missile Systems Center.
                    ``(C) The Space Development Agency.
            ``(4) Oversee and direct acquisition projects for all space 
        systems and programs of the Air Force, including projects for 
        space systems and programs transferred to the Principal 
        Assistant pursuant to section 1602(b)(4) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
            ``(5) Act as the chair of the Space Force Acquisition 
        Council under section 1602(c) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
    ``(c) In addition to the responsibilities provided for in 
subsection (b), the Principal Assistant shall have such other 
responsibilities and perform such other duties as the Secretary may 
prescribe.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 903 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 9018 and inserting the following 
        new items:

``9018. Principal Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force for Space 
                            Acquisition and Integration.
``9018a. Administrative Assistant.''.
            (3) Executive schedule level v.--Section 5416 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new item:
            ``Principal Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force for 
        Space Acquisition and Integration.''.
            (4) Transfer of acquisition projects for space systems and 
        programs.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall transfer to the 
        Principal Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force for Space 
        Acquisition and Integration under section 9018 of title 10, 
        United States Code (as added by this subsection), 
        responsibility for oversight, direction, and integration of any 
        acquisition projects for space systems and programs of the Air 
        Force that are under the oversight or direction of the 
        Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition as of the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Space Force Acquisition Council.--
            (1) In general.--There is in the Department of the Air 
        Force a council to be known as the ``Space Force Acquisition 
        Council'' (in this subsection referred to as the ``Council'').
            (2) Membership.--The members of the Council are as follows:
                    (A) The Under Secretary of the Air Force.
                    (B) The Principal Assistant to the Secretary of the 
                Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration, who 
                shall act as chair of the Council.
                    (C) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space 
                Policy.
                    (D) The Director of the National Reconnaissance 
                Office.
                    (E) The Commander of the United States Space 
                Command.
                    (F) The Commander of the United States Space Force.
            (3) Functions.--The Council shall oversee, direct, and 
        manage acquisition and integration of the Air Force for space 
        systems and programs in order to ensure integration across the 
        national security space enterprise.
            (4) Meetings.--The Council shall meet not less frequently 
        than monthly.
            (5) Reports.--Not later than 30 days after the end of each 
        calendar year quarter through the first calendar year quarter 
        of 2025, the Council shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on the activities of the Council during the 
        calendar year quarter preceding the calendar year quarter in 
        which such report is submitted.
    (d) Briefings.--On or about March 31, 2020, and during every 
calendar year quarter thereafter through March 31, 2022, the Secretary 
of the Air Force shall provide to the congressional defense committees 
a briefing on the current status of efforts to implement this section 
and the amendments made by this section. Each briefing may include such 
recommendations for legislative and administrative action as the 
Secretary considers appropriate to facilitate and enhance such efforts.

SEC. 1603. MILITARY SPACE FORCES WITHIN THE AIR FORCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 9062(c) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by striking the first sentence and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(1) The Air Force includes the following:
            ``(A) Aviation forces both combat and service not otherwise 
        assigned.
            ``(B) Space forces.''; and
            (2) by striking ``It shall be organized'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(2) The Air Force shall be organized''.
    (b) Territorial Organizations.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (b) of section 9074 of title 
        10, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``, including 
        space,'' after ``other places''.
            (2) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 9074. Commands: territorial and other organization''.
            (3) Table of sections amendment.--The table of sections at 
        the beginning of chapter 907 of such title is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 9074 and inserting the 
        following new item:

``9074. Commands: territorial and other organization.''.

SEC. 1604. REDESIGNATION OF AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND AS UNITED STATES 
              SPACE FORCE.

    (a) Redesignation.--The Air Force Space Command is hereby 
redesignated as the United States Space Force (USSF).
    (b) Commander and Authorities.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2279c of title 10, United States 
        Code, is--
                    (A) transferred to chapter 907 of such title;
                    (B) inserted after section 9062; and
                    (C) as so transferred and inserted, amended to read 
                as follows:
``Sec. 9063. United States Space Force
    ``(a) United States Space Force.--There is in the Air Force the 
United States Space Force.
    ``(b) Commander.--(1) The head of the United States Space Force 
shall be the Commander of the United States Space Force, who shall be 
appointed in accordance with section 601 of this title. The officer 
serving as Commander, while so serving, has the grade of general or 
admiral without vacating the permanent grade of the officer.
    ``(2) The Commander shall be appointed to serve a term of four 
years.
    ``(c) Temporary Concurrent Service as Commander of USSF and 
Commander of United States Space Command.--During the one-year period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, the Secretary of Defense may 
authorize an officer serving as the Commander of the United States 
Space Force to serve concurrently as the Commander of the United States 
Space Command under section 169 of this title, without further 
appointment as otherwise provided for in subsection (c) of such 
section.
    ``(d) Vice Commander.--The deputy head of the United States Space 
Force shall be the Vice Commander of the United States Space Force, who 
shall be appointed in accordance with section 601 of this title. The 
officer serving as Vice Commander, while so serving, has the grade of 
general or admiral without vacating the permanent grade of the officer.
    ``(e) Duties.--(1) Subject to the authority, direction, and control 
of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Commander of the United States 
Space Force shall do the following:
            ``(A) Exercise authority, direction, and control of all 
        space operations-peculiar administrative matters relating to 
        the organization, training, and equipping of the space forces 
        of the Air Force.
            ``(B) Exercise the authorities and responsibilities 
        assigned to the Commander as Commander of the Air Force Space 
        Command before December 12, 2017.
            ``(C) Carry out such other duties as the Secretary may 
        specify.
    ``(2) In carrying out duties under paragraph (1), the Commander of 
the United States Space Force shall report as follows:
            ``(A) During the one-year period beginning on the date of 
        the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2020, to the Secretary of the Air Force through the 
        Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
            ``(B) After the period described in subparagraph (A), 
        directly to the Secretary of the Air Force.
    ``(3)(A) During the one-year period beginning on the date of the 
enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2020, upon the 
request of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commander of 
the United States Space Force may participate in any meeting of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff in consideration by the Joint Chiefs of Staff of 
an issue in connection with a duty or responsibility of the Commander.
    ``(B) Commencing as of the end of the period described in 
subparagraph (A), the Commander of the United States Space Force shall 
be a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    ``(f) Elements.--(1) In addition to the elements of the Air Force 
Space Command as of the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, the United States Space Force 
shall include other military and civilian personnel of the Air Force 
(including appropriate elements of the Air National Guard and the Air 
Force Reserve), and other infrastructure, assets, and resources of the 
Air Force, assigned to the Space Force by the Secretary of the Air 
Force.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall provide for the Space Force a cadre of 
military and civilian personnel within the Air Force who shall assist 
the Space Force in establishing and maintaining an ethos and culture 
for space warfighting.''.
            (2) Service of incumbent commander of air force space 
        command as commander of united states space force.--The 
        individual serving as Commander of the Air Force Space Command 
        as of the date of the enactment of this Act may serve as the 
        Commander of the United States Space Force under subsection (b) 
        of section 9063 of title 10, United States Code (as added by 
        paragraph (1)), after that date without further appointment as 
        otherwise provided for by that subsection.
            (3) Secretary of defense report on concurrency of 
        command.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
                committees a report setting forth an assessment of the 
                advisability of permitting the Commander of the United 
                States Space Force to serve concurrently as Commander 
                of the United States Space Command as authorized by 
                subsection (c) of section 9063 of title 10, United 
                States Code (as so added).
                    (B) Comptroller general briefing.--Not later than 
                30 days after the submittal of the report required by 
                subparagraph (A), the Comptroller General of the United 
                States shall provide the congressional defense 
                committees a briefing on the assessment of the 
                Comptroller General of the matters contained in the 
                report.
            (4) Secretary of the air force briefings on ussf.--On or 
        about March 31, 2020, and during every calendar year quarter 
        thereafter through March 31, 2022, the Secretary of the Air 
        Force shall provide the congressional defense committees a 
        briefing on the following:
                    (A) The current status of the missions and manpower 
                of the United States Space Force under section 9063 of 
                title 10, United States Code (as so added), including 
                the current status of the assumption by the United 
                States Space Force of the elements to constitute the 
                United States Space Force, including the elements of 
                the Air Force Space Command and the elements assigned 
                pursuant to subsection (f)(1) of such section.
                    (B) The current status of activities of the cadre 
                of personnel required by subsection (f)(2) of such 
                section 9063 (as so added), including an assessment of 
                the progress of the cadre in establishing and 
                maintaining the ethos and culture described in that 
                subsection.
            (5) No authorization of additional military billets or 
        civilian personnel.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall carry 
        out this subsection and the amendments made by this subsection 
        within military and civilian personnel of the Air Force 
        otherwise authorized by this Act. Nothing in this subsection or 
        the amendments made by this subsection shall be construed to 
        authorize additional military billets or the employment of 
        additional civilian personnel for the purposes of, or in 
        connection with, the establishment of the United States Space 
        Force.
    (c) Conforming Amendment to US Space Command Commander Authority.--
Section 169(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraph (2):
    ``(2) If authorized by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 
9063(c) of this title, the officer serving as Commander of the United 
States Space Force also serves concurrently as Commander of the United 
States Space Command, but only during the one-year period beginning on 
the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020.''.
    (d) Joint Chiefs of Staff Matters.--Effective on the date that is 
one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, section 151(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(8) The Commander of the United States Space Force.''.
    (e) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Chapter 135.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
        chapter 135 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 2279c.
            (2) Chapter 907.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
        chapter 907 of such title is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 9062 the following new item:

``9063. United States Space Force.''.
    (f) References.--Any reference to the Air Force Space Command in 
any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the 
United States shall be deemed to be a reference to the United States 
Space Force.

SEC. 1605. ASSIGNMENT OF PERSONNEL TO THE NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE 
              OFFICE FOR MISSION NEEDS.

    (a) USSF as Primary Source of Personnel.--Effective as of the date 
of the enactment of this Act, military and civilian personnel of the 
United States Space Force under section 9063 of title 10, United States 
Code (as added by section 1604(b) of this Act), shall be the primary 
source of military and civilian personnel of the Department of the Air 
Force who may be assigned to the National Reconnaissance Office.
    (b) Assignment by Commander, USSF.--Subject to the authority, 
direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Commander 
of the United States Space Force shall be responsible for the 
assignment of military and civilian personnel of the United States 
Space Force to the National Reconnaissance Office.

SEC. 1606. REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION OF UNDER SECRETARY OF 
              THE AIR FORCE FOR SPACE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report on the advisability of 
establishing within the Department of the Air Force a position of Under 
Secretary of the Air Force for Space with the responsibility of 
providing civilian oversight to the United States Space Force (as 
provided for by section 1604 of this Act).
    (b) Considerations.--In preparing the report required by subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall take into consideration the tasks and 
operations of the staff of the Air Force in support of the space 
warfighting mission of the Air Force and such other matters as the 
Secretary considers appropriate.

SEC. 1607. REPORT ON ENHANCED INTEGRATION OF CAPABILITIES OF THE 
              NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY, THE NATIONAL GEOSPATIAL-
              INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, AND THE UNITED STATES SPACE COMMAND 
              FOR JOINT OPERATIONS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination with the Director 
of National Intelligence, submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report setting forth the results of a review, conducted 
for purposes of the report, on processes designed to achieve more 
effective integration of capabilities among the National Security 
Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and the United 
States Space Command for joint operations in a manner that does not 
result in the impairment of the authorities or responsibilities of the 
Director.

SEC. 1608. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.

    None of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 
2020 by this Act and available for the Air Force for programs, 
projects, or activities for space, including acquisition programs, 
projects, or activities, may be obligated or expended until the date on 
which the Secretary of the Air Force completes briefings of the 
congressional defense committees on the plans of the Air Force to 
implement this part and the amendments made by this part, including the 
following:
            (1) The establishment of the office of the Principal 
        Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force for Space 
        Acquisition and Integration under section 9018 of title 10, 
        United States Code (as added by section 1602 of this Act).
            (2) The establishment of the United States Space Force 
        required by section 9063 of title 10, United States Code (as 
        added by section 1604 of this Act).

                      PART II--OTHER SPACE MATTERS

SEC. 1611. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH SPACE COMMAND AS A 
              SUBORDINATE UNIFIED COMMAND OF THE UNITED STATES 
              STRATEGIC COMMAND.

    (a) In General.--Section 169 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 6 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 169.

SEC. 1612. PROGRAM TO ENHANCE AND IMPROVE LAUNCH SUPPORT AND 
              INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General.--In support of the policy described in section 
2273(a) of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may 
carry out a program to enhance infrastructure and improve support 
activities for the processing and launch of Department of Defense 
small-class and medium-class payloads.
    (b) Program.--The program under subsection (a) shall include 
improvements to operations at launch ranges and Federal Aviation 
Administration-licensed spaceports that are consistent with, and 
necessary to permit, the use of such launch ranges and spaceports by 
the Department.
    (c) Consultation.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(a), the Secretary may consult with current and anticipated users of 
launch ranges and Federal Aviation Administration-licensed spaceports, 
including the Space Rapid Capabilities Office.
    (d) Cooperation.--In carrying out the program under subsection (a), 
the Secretary may enter into a contract or agreement under section 2276 
of title 10, United States Code.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report describing a plan for the program under 
subsection (a).

SEC. 1613. MODIFICATION OF ENHANCEMENT OF POSITIONING, NAVIGATION, AND 
              TIMING CAPACITY.

    (a) Capability for Trusted Signals.--
            (1) Subsection heading.--Subsection (a) of section 1609 of 
        the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended, in the 
        subsection heading, by striking ``Trusted Signals'' and 
        inserting ``Alternative Global Navigation Satellite System 
        Signals''.
            (2) Requirement.--Paragraph (1) of such subsection is 
        amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) Requirement.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
        ensure that military Global Positioning System (GPS) user 
        equipment terminals have the capability, as appropriate to user 
        needs and constraints, to incorporate signals from the Galileo 
        satellites of the European Union and the QZSS satellites of 
        Japan, beginning with the implementation of open-system 
        architecture solutions, such as the Resilient-Embedded GPS/
        Inertial Navigation System (R-EGI), to accompany other 
        alternative and complementary navigation sources for robust 
        positioning, navigation, and timing.''.
            (3) Waiver.--Paragraph (2) of such subsection is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``could not 
                integrate such capability beginning with increment 2 of 
                the acquisition of such terminals'' and inserting 
                ``should not integrate such capability into the 
                Resilient-Embedded GPS/Inertial Navigation System 
                architecture''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``that 
                considers the addition of multi-Global Navigation 
                Satellite System (GNSS) signals to provide substantive 
                military utility'' after ``such terminals''.
    (b) Capability for Other Signals.--Subsection (b) of such section 
is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
            (1) by inserting ``other allied and'' before ``non-allied 
        positioning, navigation, and timing signals''; and
            (2) by striking ``increment 2 of the acquisition of such 
        terminals'' and inserting ``the Resilient-Embedded GPS/Inertial 
        Navigation System architecture''.

SEC. 1614. MODIFICATION OF TERM OF COMMANDER OF AIR FORCE SPACE 
              COMMAND.

    Section 2279c(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in 
the first sentence, by striking ``six years'' and inserting ``four 
years''.

SEC. 1615. ANNUAL REPORT ON SPACE COMMAND AND CONTROL PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--For each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025, 
concurrent with the submittal to Congress of the budget of the 
Department of Defense with the budget of the President for the 
subsequent fiscal year under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States 
Code, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the congressional 
defense committees, and the Comptroller General of the United States, 
an annual report on the Space Command and Control program.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--Each report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) A description of any modification to the metrics 
        established by the Secretary in the acquisition strategy for 
        the program.
            (2) The short-term objectives for the subsequent fiscal 
        year.
            (3) For the preceding fiscal year, a description of--
                    (A) the ongoing, achieved, and deferred objectives;
                    (B) the challenges encountered and the lessons 
                learned;
                    (C) the modifications made or planned so as to 
                incorporate such lessons learned into subsequent 
                efforts to address challenges; and
                    (D) the cost, schedule, and performance effects of 
                such modifications.
    (c) Review of Reports and Briefing by Comptroller General.--With 
respect to each report submitted under this section, the Comptroller 
General shall review and provide to the congressional defense 
committees a briefing on a date mutually agreed on by the Comptroller 
General and the congressional defense committees.

SEC. 1616. REQUIREMENTS FOR PHASE 2 OF ACQUISITION STRATEGY FOR 
              NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH PROGRAM.

    In carrying out phase 2 of the acquisition strategy for the 
national security space launch program, the Secretary of the Air 
Force--
            (1) may not--
                    (A) modify the acquisition schedule or mission 
                performance requirements; or
                    (B) award missions to more than two launch service 
                providers; and
            (2) shall ensure that launch services are procured only 
        from launch service providers that use launch vehicles meeting 
        each Government requirement with respect to required payloads 
        to reference orbits.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-related Activities

SEC. 1621. REDESIGNATION OF UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE 
              AS UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE AND 
              SECURITY.

    (a) Redesignation of Under Secretary.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Intelligence is hereby redesignated as the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Intelligence and Security.
            (2) Service of incumbent in position.--The individual 
        serving as Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence as of 
        the date of the enactment of this Act may serve as Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security commencing 
        as of that date without further appointment under section 137 
        of title 10, United States Code (as amended by subsection 
        (c)(1)(A)(ii)).
            (3) Reference.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence shall be deemed to 
        be a reference to the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Intelligence and Security.
    (b) Redesignation of Related Deputy Under Secretary.--
            (1) In general.--The Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Intelligence is hereby redesignated as the Deputy Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security.
            (2) Service of incumbent in position.--The individual 
        serving as Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
        as of the date of the enactment of this Act may serve as Deputy 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security 
        commencing as of that date without further appointment under 
        section 137a of title 10, United States Code (as amended by 
        subsection (c)(1)(B)).
            (3) Reference.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
        Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence shall be 
        deemed to be a reference to the Deputy Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Intelligence and Security.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Title 10.--Title 10, United States Code, is amended as 
        follows:
                    (A) In each provision as follows, by striking 
                ``Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence'' and 
                inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
                and Security'':
                            (i) Section 131(b)(3)(F).
                            (ii) Section 137, each place it appears.
                            (iii) Section 139a(d)(6).
                            (iv) Section 139b(c)(2)(E).
                            (v) Section 181(d)(1)(B).
                            (vi) Section 393(b)(2)(C).
                            (vii) Section 426, each place it appears.
                            (viii) Section 430(a).
                    (B) In section 137a(c)(6), by striking ``Deputy 
                Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence'' and 
                inserting ``Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Intelligence and Security''.
                    (C) The heading of section 137 is amended to read 
                as follows:
``Sec. 137. Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security''.
                    (D) The table of sections at the beginning of 
                chapter 4 is amended by striking the item relating to 
                section 137 and inserting the following new item:

``137. Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security.''.
            (2) Title 5.--Title 5, United States Code, is amended as 
        follows:
                    (A) In section 5314, by striking ``Under Secretary 
                of Defense for Intelligence'' and inserting ``Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security''.
                    (B) In section 5315, by striking ``Deputy Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Intelligence'' and inserting 
                ``Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
                and Security''.

SEC. 1622. REPEAL OF CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO INTEGRATION OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND 
              RECONNAISSANCE CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 426 of title 10, United States Code, is hereby 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 21 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 426.

SEC. 1623. IMPROVING THE ONBOARDING METHODOLOGY FOR CERTAIN 
              INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense and the Director of 
National Intelligence shall, consistent with Department of Defense 
Instruction 1400.25, as in effect on the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act--
            (1) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report that outlines a common methodology for measuring 
        onboarding in covered elements of the intelligence community, 
        including human resources and security processes;
            (2) not later than one year after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, issue metrics for assessing key phases in the 
        onboarding described in paragraph (1) for which results will be 
        reported by the date that is 90 days after the date of such 
        issuance;
            (3) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report on collaboration among covered elements of the 
        intelligence community on their onboarding processes;
            (4) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report on employment of automated mechanisms in covered 
        elements of the intelligence community, including for tracking 
        personnel as they pass through each phase of the onboarding 
        process; and
            (5) not later than December 31, 2020, distribute surveys to 
        human resources offices and applicants about their experiences 
        with the onboarding process in covered elements of the 
        intelligence community.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
                and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) The term ``covered elements of the intelligence 
        community'' means the elements of the intelligence community 
        that are within the following:
                    (A) The Department of Energy.
                    (B) The Department of Homeland Security.
                    (C) The Department of Justice.
                    (D) The Department of State.
                    (E) The Department of the Treasury.

SEC. 1624. DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY ACTIVITIES 
              ON FACILITATING ACCESS TO LOCAL CRIMINAL RECORDS 
              HISTORICAL DATA.

    (a) Activity Authorized.--The Director of the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency may carry out a set of 
activities relating to facilitating access by the Agency to local 
criminal records historical data.
    (b) Activities Characterized.--The activities carried out under 
subsection (a) shall include only the following:
            (1) Training and education.
            (2) Outreach to State, local, and tribal authorities.
            (3) Direct assistance.
    (c) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report that details a 
        concept of operation for the set of activities authorized by 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Annual reports.--Not later than one year after the date 
        on which the Director submits a report pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) and not less frequently than once each year thereafter, the 
        Director shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
        detailed report on the activities carried out by the Director 
        under this section.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-related Matters

SEC. 1631. REORIENTATION OF BIG DATA PLATFORM PROGRAM.

    (a) Reorientation of Program.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall--
                    (A) reorient the Big Data Platform program as 
                specified in this section; and
                    (B) align the reorientation effort under an 
                existing line of effort of the Cyber Strategy of the 
                Department of Defense.
            (2) Oversight of implementation.--The Secretary shall act 
        through the Principal Cyber Advisor and the supporting Cross 
        Functional Team in the oversight of the implementation of 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) Common Baseline and Security Classification Scheme.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the 
        Secretary shall establish a common baseline and security 
        classification scheme for the collection, storage, processing, 
        querying, analysis, and accessibility of a common and 
        comprehensive set of metadata from sensors, applications, 
        appliances, products, and systems deployed across the 
        Department of Defense Information Network (DODIN) to enable the 
        discovery, tracking, and remediation of cybersecurity threats.
            (2) Requirements.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) take such actions as the Secretary considers 
                necessary to standardize deployed infrastructure, 
                including the Department of Defense's perimeter 
                capabilities at the Internet Access Points and the 
                Joint Regional Security Stacks, and the routing of data 
                laterally and vertically from Department of Defense 
                Information Network segments and tiers, to enable 
                standard and comprehensive metadata collection;
                    (B) take such actions as the Secretary considers 
                necessary to standardize deployed cybersecurity 
                applications, products, and sensors and the routing of 
                data laterally and vertically from Department of 
                Defense Information Network segments and tiers, to 
                enable standard and comprehensive metadata collection;
                    (C) develop an enterprise-wide architecture and 
                strategy for--
                            (i) where to place sensors or extract data 
                        from network information technology, 
                        operational technology, and cybersecurity 
                        appliances, applications, products, and systems 
                        for cybersecurity purposes;
                            (ii) which metadata data records should be 
                        universally sent to Big Data Platform instances 
                        and which metadata data records, if any, should 
                        be locally retained; and
                            (iii) expeditiously and efficiently 
                        transmitting metadata records to the Big Data 
                        Platform instances, including the acquisition 
                        and installation of further data bandwidth;
                    (D) determine the appropriate number, organization, 
                and functions of separate Big Data Platform instances, 
                and whether the Big Data Platform instances that are 
                currently managed by Department of Defense components, 
                including the military services, should instead be 
                jointly and regionally organized;
                    (E) determine the appropriate roles of the Defense 
                Information Systems Agency's Acropolis and United 
                States Cyber Command's Scarif Big Data Platforms as 
                enterprise-wide real-time cybersecurity situational 
                awareness capabilities, as complements or replacements 
                for component-level Big Data Platform instances;
                    (F) ensure that all Big Data Platform instances are 
                engineered and approved to enable standard access and 
                query capabilities by the Unified Platform, the network 
                defense service providers, and the Cyber Mission 
                Forces, with centrally managed authentication and 
                authorization services;
                    (G) prohibit barriers to information sharing, 
                distributed query, data analysis, and collaboration 
                across Big Data Platform instances, such as 
                incompatible interfaces, interconnection service 
                agreements, and the imposition of accreditation 
                boundaries;
                    (H) transition all Big Data Platform instances to a 
                cloud computing environment in alignment with the cloud 
                strategy of the Chief Information Officer of the 
                Department of Defense;
                    (I) consider whether packet capture databases 
                should continue to be maintained separately from the 
                Big Data Platform instances, managed at the secret 
                level of classification, and treated as malware-
                infected when the packet data are copies of packets 
                extant in the Department of Defense Information 
                Network;
                    (J) in the case that the Secretary decides to 
                sustain the status quo on packet capture databases, 
                ensure that analysts operating on or from the Unified 
                Platform, the Big Data Platform instances, the network 
                defense services providers, and the Cyber Mission Force 
                units can directly access packets and query the 
                database; and
                    (K) consider whether the Joint Artificial 
                Intelligence Center's cybersecurity artificial 
                intelligence national mission initiative should include 
                an application for the metadata residing in the Big 
                Data Platform instances.
    (c) Limit on Data and Data Indexing Schema.--The Secretary shall 
ensure that the Unified Platform program utilizes the data and the data 
indexing schema that is native to the Big Data Platform rather than 
creating a duplicate index or data tagger.
    (d) Analytics and Application Sourcing and Collaboration.--The 
Secretary shall ensure that the Services and office of the Big Data 
Platform program--
            (1) seek advanced analytics and applications from 
        Government and commercial sources that can be executed on the 
        deployed Big Data Platform architecture; and
            (2) collaborate with vendors offering commercial analytics 
        and applications, including support to refactoring commercial 
        capabilities to the Government platform where industry can 
        still own the intellectual property embedded in the analytics 
        and applications.
    (e) Briefing Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once every 180 
days thereafter until the activities required by subsection (a)(1) are 
completed, the Secretary shall provide the congressional defense 
committees a briefing on the activities of the Secretary in carrying 
out subsection (b).

SEC. 1632. ZERO-BASED REVIEW OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CYBER AND 
              INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PERSONNEL.

    (a) Review Required.--Not later than January 1, 2021, each head of 
a covered department, component, or agency shall--
            (1) complete a zero-based review of the cyber and 
        information technology personnel of the head's covered 
        department, component, or agency; and
            (2) provide the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief 
        Information Officer of the Department of Defense, and the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness the findings 
        of the head with respect to the head's covered department, 
        component, or agency.
    (b) Covered Departments, Components, and Agencies.--For purposes of 
this section, a covered department, component, or agency is--
            (1) an independent Department of Defense component or 
        agency;
            (2) the Office of the Secretary of Defense;
            (3) a component of the Joint Staff;
            (4) a military department or an armed force; or
            (5) a reserve component of the Armed Forces.
    (c) Scope of Review.--As part of a review conducted pursuant to 
subsection (a)(1), the head of a covered department, component, or 
agency shall, with respect to the covered department, component, or 
agency of the head--
            (1) assess military, civilian, and contractor positions and 
        personnel performing cyber and information technology missions;
            (2) determine the roles and functions assigned by reviewing 
        existing position descriptions and conducting interviews to 
        quantify the current workload performed by military, civilian, 
        and contractor workforce;
            (3) compare the Department's manning with the manning of 
        comparable industry organizations;
            (4) include evaluation of the utility of cyber- and 
        information technology-focused missions, positions, and 
        personnel within such components--
                    (A) to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of 
                current activities;
                    (B) to assess the necessity of increasing, 
                reducing, or eliminating resources; and
                    (C) to guide prioritization of investment and 
                funding;
            (5) develop recommendations and objectives for 
        organizational, manning, and equipping change, taking into 
        account anticipated developments in information technologies, 
        workload projections, automation and process enhancements, and 
        Department requirements;
            (6) develop a gap analysis, contrasting the current 
        organization and the objectives developed pursuant to paragraph 
        (5); and
            (7) develop roadmaps of prioritized activities and a 
        timeline for implementing the activities to close the gaps 
        identified pursuant to paragraph (6).
    (d) Elements.--In carrying out a review pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1), the head of a covered department, component, or agency shall 
consider the following:
            (1) Whether position descriptions and coding designators 
        for given cybersecurity and information technology roles are 
        accurate indicators of the work being performed.
            (2) Whether the function of any cybersecurity or 
        information technology position or personnel can be replaced by 
        acquisition of cybersecurity or information technology products 
        or automation.
            (3) Whether a given component or subcomponent is over- or 
        under-resourced in terms of personnel, using industry standards 
        as a benchmark where applicable.
            (4) Whether cybersecurity service provider positions and 
        personnel fit coherently into the enterprise-wide cybersecurity 
        architecture and with the Department's cyber protection teams.
            (5) Whether the function of any cybersecurity or 
        information technology position or personnel could be conducted 
        more efficiently or effectively by enterprise-level cyber or 
        information technology personnel.
    (e) Furnishing Data and Analysis.--
            (1) Data and analysis.--In carrying out subsection (a)(2), 
        each head of a covered department, component, or agency, shall 
        furnish to the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information 
        Officer, and the Under Secretary a description of the analysis 
        that led to the findings submitted under such subsection and 
        the data used in such analysis.
            (2) Certification.--The Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief 
        Information Officer, and the Under Secretary of Defense shall 
        jointly review each submittal under subsection (a)(2) and 
        certify whether the findings and analysis are in compliance 
        with the requirements of this section.
    (f) Recommendations.--After receiving findings submitted by a head 
of a covered department, component, or agency pursuant to paragraph (2) 
of subsection (a) with respect to a review conducted by the head 
pursuant to paragraph (1) of such subsection, the Principal Cyber 
Advisor, the Chief Information Officer, and the Under Secretary shall 
jointly provide to such head such recommendations as the Principal 
Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information Officer, and the Under Secretary 
may have for changes in manning or acquisition that proceed from such 
review.
    (g) Implementation.--The Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief 
Information Officer, and the Under Secretary shall jointly oversee and 
assist in the implementation of the roadmaps developed pursuant to 
subsection (c)(7) and the recommendations developed pursuant to 
subsection (f).
    (h) In-progress Reviews.--Not later than six months after the date 
of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once every 
six months thereafter until the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief 
Information Officer, and the Under Secretary give the briefing required 
by subsection (i), the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information 
Officer, and the Under Secretary shall jointly--
            (1) conduct in-progress reviews of the status of the 
        reviews required by subsection (a)(1); and
            (2) provide the congressional defense committees with a 
        briefing on such in-progress reviews.
    (i) Final Briefing.--After all of the reviews have been completed 
under paragraph (1) of subsection (a), after receiving all of the 
findings pursuant to paragraph (2) of such subsection, and not later 
than June 1, 2021, the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information 
Officer, and the Under Secretary shall jointly provide to the 
congressional defense committees a briefing on the findings of the 
Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information Officer, and the Under 
Secretary with respect to such reviews, including such recommendations 
as the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information Officer, and the 
Under Secretary may have for changes to the budget of the Department as 
a result of such reviews.
    (j) Definition of Zero-based Review.--In this section, the term 
``zero-based review'' means a review in which assessment is conducted 
with each item, position, or person costed anew, rather than in 
relation to its size or status in any previous budget.

SEC. 1633. STUDY ON IMPROVING CYBER CAREER PATHS IN THE NAVY.

    (a) Study Required.--Not later than October 1, 2020, the Secretary 
of the Navy and the Chief of Naval Operations shall jointly--
            (1) complete a study on methods to improve military and 
        civilian cyber career paths within the Navy; and
            (2) submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        on the findings of the Secretary and Chief with respect to the 
        study completed pursuant to paragraph (1) and submit such 
        report with all of the data used in such study.
    (b) Elements.--The report submitted pursuant to subsection (a)(2) 
shall include the following:
            (1) A plan for implementing career paths for civilian and 
        military personnel tailored to develop expertise in cyber skill 
        sets, including skills sets appropriate for offensive and 
        defensive military cyber operations.
            (2) Suggested changes to the processes that govern the 
        identification of talent and career progression of the civilian 
        and military workforce.
            (3) A methodology for a cyber workforce assignment policy 
        that deliberately builds depth and breadth of knowledge 
        regarding the conduct of cyber operations throughout an entire 
        career.
            (4) Possible enhancements to identifying, recruiting, 
        training, and retaining the cyber workforce, both civilian and 
        military, especially for Interactive On-Net operators and tool 
        developers.
            (5) Recommendations for legislative and administrative 
        actions to address the findings and recommendations of the 
        Secretary and the Chief with respect to the study completed 
        pursuant to subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Consultation.--In conducting the study required by subsection 
(a)(1), the Secretary and the Chief shall consult with the following:
            (1) The Principal Cyber Advisor of the Department of 
        Defense.
            (2) The Secretary of the Air Force.
            (3) The Air Force Chief of Staff.
            (4) The Secretary of the Army.
            (5) The Army Chief of Staff.
            (6) The Commandant of the Marine Corps.
            (7) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
        Readiness.
            (8) The Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
        Defense.
            (9) The Commander of the United States Cyber Command.

SEC. 1634. FRAMEWORK TO ENHANCE CYBERSECURITY OF THE UNITED STATES 
              DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    (a) Framework Required.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the 
Secretary of Defense shall develop a consistent, comprehensive 
framework to enhance cybersecurity for the United States defense 
industrial base.
    (b) Elements.--The framework developed pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) Identification of unified cybersecurity standards, 
        regulations, metrics, ratings, third-party certifications, or 
        requirements to be imposed on the defense industrial base for 
        the purpose of assessing the cybersecurity of individual 
        contractors.
            (2) The roles and responsibilities of various activities 
        within the Department of Defense, across the entire acquisition 
        process, beginning with market research, including 
        responsibility determination, solicitation, and award, and 
        continuing with contractor management and oversight on matters 
        relating to cybersecurity.
            (3) The responsibilities of the prime contractors, and all 
        subcontractors in the supply chain, for implementing the 
        required cybersecurity standards, regulations, metrics, 
        ratings, third-party certifications, and requirements 
        identified under paragraph (1).
            (4) A plan to provide implementation guidance, education, 
        manuals, and, as necessary, direct technical support or 
        assistance to such contractors on matters relating to 
        cybersecurity.
            (5) Methods and programs for defining and managing 
        controlled unclassified information, and for limiting the 
        presence of unnecessary sensitive information on contractor 
        networks.
            (6) Quantitative metrics for assessing the effectiveness of 
        the overall framework over time, with respect to the 
        exfiltration of controlled unclassified information from the 
        defense industrial base.
    (c) Matters for Consideration.--In developing the framework 
required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider the following:
            (1) Designating an official to be responsible for the 
        cybersecurity of the defense industrial base.
            (2) Evaluating methods, standards, metrics, and third-party 
        certifications for assessing the cybersecurity of individual 
        contractors.
            (3) Ensuring a consistent approach across the Department to 
        matters relating to the cybersecurity of the defense industrial 
        base.
            (4) Tailoring cybersecurity requirements for small- and 
        medium-sized contractors based on a risk-based approach.
            (5) Ensuring the Department's traceability and visibility 
        of cybersecurity compliance of suppliers to all levels of the 
        supply chain.
            (6) Evaluating incentives and penalties for cybersecurity 
        performance of suppliers.
            (7) Integrating cybersecurity and traditional 
        counterintelligence measures, requirements, and programs.
            (8) Establishing a secure software development environment 
        (DevSecOps) in a cloud environment inside the perimeter of the 
        Department for contractors to do their development work.
            (9) Establishing a secure cloud environment where 
        contractors could access the data of the Department needed for 
        their contract work.
            (10) Establishing a Cybersecurity Maturity Model 
        Certification for defense industrial base companies, scoring 
        companies on a rating scale, and requiring certain ratings for 
        contract awards.
            (11) Providing additional assistance to small companies in 
        the form of training, mentoring, approved security product 
        lists, and approved lists of security-as-a-service providers.
            (12) Technological means, operational concepts, reference 
        architectures, offensive counterintelligence operation 
        concepts, and plans for operationalization to complicate 
        adversary espionage, including honeypotting and data 
        obfuscation.
            (13) Implementing enhanced security vulnerability 
        assessments for contractors working on critical acquisition 
        programs, technologies, manufacturing capabilities, and 
        research areas.
            (14) Identifying ways to better leverage technology and 
        employ machine learning or artificial intelligence 
        capabilities, such as Internet Protocol monitoring and data 
        integrity capabilities to be applied to contractor information 
        systems that host, receive, or transmit controlled unclassified 
        information.
            (15) Developing tools to easily segregate program data to 
        only allow subcontractors access to their specific information.
            (16) Appropriate communications of threat assessments of 
        the defense industrial base to the acquisition workforce at all 
        classification levels.
            (17) Appropriate communications with industry on the impact 
        of cybersecurity considerations in contracting and procurement 
        decisions.
    (d) Consultation.--In developing the framework required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with the following:
            (1) Industry groups representing the defense industrial 
        base.
            (2) Contractors in the defense industrial base.
            (3) The Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology.
            (4) The Secretary of Energy and the Nuclear Regulatory 
        Commission.
            (5) The Director of National Intelligence.
    (e) Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 11, 2020, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall provide the congressional defense 
        committees with a briefing on the framework developed pursuant 
        to subsection (a).
            (2) Contents.--The briefing required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An overview of the framework developed in 
                subsection (a).
                    (B) Identification of such pilot programs as the 
                Secretary considers may be required to improve the 
                cybersecurity of the defense industrial base.
                    (C) Implementation timelines and identification of 
                costs.
                    (D) Such recommendations as the Secretary may have 
                for legislative action to improve the cybersecurity of 
                the defense industrial base.
    (f) Quarterly Briefings.--
            (1) In general.--Not less frequently than once each quarter 
        until February 1, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall brief 
        the congressional defense committees on the status of 
        development and implementation of the framework required by 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Coordination with other briefings.--Each briefing under 
        paragraph (1) shall be conducted in conjunction with a 
        quarterly briefing under section 484(a) of title 10, United 
        States Code.
            (3) Elements.--Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The current status of the development and 
                implementation of the framework required by subsection 
                (a).
                    (B) A description of the efforts undertaken by the 
                Secretary to evaluate the matters for consideration set 
                forth in subsection (c).
                    (C) The current status of any pilot programs the 
                Secretary is carrying out to develop the framework.

SEC. 1635. ROLE OF CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER IN IMPROVING ENTERPRISE-
              WIDE CYBERSECURITY.

    (a) In General.--In carrying out the responsibilities established 
in section 142 of title 10, United States Code, the Chief Information 
Officer of the Department of Defense shall, to the maximum extent 
practicable, ensure that the cybersecurity programs and capabilities of 
the Department--
            (1) fit into an enterprise-wide cybersecurity architecture;
            (2) are maximally interoperable with each other, including 
        those deployed by the components of the Department;
            (3) enhance enterprise-level visibility and responsiveness 
        to threats; and
            (4) are developed, procured, instituted, and managed in a 
        cost-efficient manner, exploiting economies of scale and 
        enterprise-wide services and discouraging unnecessary 
        customization and piecemeal acquisition.
    (b) Requirements.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Chief 
Information Officer shall--
            (1) manage and modernize the cybersecurity architecture of 
        the Department, including--
                    (A) ensuring the cybersecurity architecture of the 
                Department maximizes cybersecurity capability, network, 
                and endpoint activity data-sharing across Department 
                components;
                    (B) ensuring the cybersecurity architecture of the 
                Department supports improved automaticity of 
                cybersecurity detection and response; and
                    (C) modernizing and configuring the Department's 
                standardized deployed perimeter, network-level, and 
                endpoint capabilities to improve interoperability, meet 
                pressing capability needs, and negate common adversary 
                tactics, techniques, and procedures;
            (2) establish mechanisms to enable and mandate, as 
        necessary, cybersecurity capability, and network and endpoint 
        activity data-sharing across Department components;
            (3) make mission data, through data tagging, automatic 
        transmission, and other means, accessible and discoverable by 
        Department components other than owners of those mission data;
            (4) incorporate emerging cybersecurity technologies from 
        the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Strategic 
        Capabilities Office, the Defense Innovation Unit, the 
        laboratories of the military departments, and the commercial 
        sector into the cybersecurity architecture of the Department; 
        and
            (5) ensure that the Department possesses the necessary 
        computing infrastructure, through technology refresh, 
        installation or acquisition of bandwidth, and the use of cloud 
        computing power, to host and enable necessary cybersecurity 
        capabilities.

SEC. 1636. QUARTERLY ASSESSMENTS OF THE READINESS OF CYBER FORCES.

    (a) In General.--Section 484(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph (4):
            ``(4) An assessment of the readiness of the Cyber Mission 
        Forces that--
                    ``(A) addresses all of the abilities of the 
                Department to conduct cyberspace operations based on 
                capability and capacity of personnel, equipment, 
                training, and equipment condition--
                            ``(i) using both quantitative and 
                        qualitative metrics; and
                            ``(ii) in a way that is common to all 
                        military departments; and
                    ``(B) is consistent with readiness reporting 
                pursuant to section 482 of this title.''.
    (b) Metrics.--
            (1) Establishment required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
        establish metrics for the assessment of the readiness of the 
        Cyber Mission Forces of the Department of Defense.
            (2) Briefing required.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary will provide a 
        briefing to the congressional defense committees on the metrics 
        established pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (c) Modification of Readiness Reporting System.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
take such actions as the Secretary considers appropriate to ensure that 
the comprehensive readiness reporting system established pursuant to 
section 117(a) of title 10, United States Code, covers matters relating 
to the readiness of the Cyber Mission Forces--
            (1) using the metrics established pursuant to subsection 
        (b)(1); and
            (2) in a manner that is consistent with sections 117 and 
        482 of such title.
    (d) First Quarterly Briefing Assessing Cyber Readiness.--The 
amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date that is 
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1637. CONTROL AND ANALYSIS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DATA STOLEN 
              THROUGH CYBERSPACE.

    (a) Requirements.--When the Secretary of Defense determines that 
significant Department of Defense information may have been stolen 
through cyberspace and evidence of theft of the data in question--
            (1) is in the possession of a component of the Department, 
        the Secretary shall--
                    (A) either transfer or replicate and transfer such 
                Department data in a prompt and secure manner to a 
                secure repository with access by Department personnel 
                appropriately limited on a need-to-know basis;
                    (B) ensure the Department applies such automated 
                analytic tools and capabilities to the repository of 
                potentially compromised data as are necessary to 
                rapidly understand the scope and effect of the 
                potential compromise;
                    (C) for high priority Department systems, develop 
                analytic products that characterize the scope of data 
                compromised;
                    (D) ensure that all mission-affected entities in 
                the Department are made aware of the theft or possible 
                theft and, as damage assessment and mitigation 
                proceeds, are kept apprised of the extent of the data 
                stolen; and
                    (E) ensure that the Department counterintelligence 
                organizations are--
                            (i) fully integrated with any damage 
                        assessment team assigned to the breach;
                            (ii) fully informed of the data that have 
                        or potentially have been stolen and the effect 
                        of such theft; and
                            (iii) provided resources and tasked, in 
                        conjunction with subject matter experts and 
                        responsible authorities, to immediately develop 
                        and execute countermeasures in response to a 
                        breach involving espionage and data theft; or
            (2) is in the possession of or under controls or 
        restrictions imposed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or 
        a national counterintelligence or intelligence organization, 
        the Secretary shall determine, jointly with the Director of the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation or the Director of National 
        Intelligence, as appropriate, the most expeditious process, 
        means, and conditions for carrying out the activities otherwise 
        required by paragraph (1).
    (b) Recommendations.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees such recommendations as the Secretary may have for 
legislative or administrative action to address such barriers as may be 
inhibiting the implementation of this section.

SEC. 1638. ACCREDITATION STANDARDS AND PROCESSES FOR CYBERSECURITY AND 
              INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.

    (a) Assessment.--The Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
Defense shall conduct an enterprise assessment of accreditation of 
standards and processes for cybersecurity and information technology 
products and services.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2020, the Chief 
        Information Officer shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on the assessment conducted under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) The findings of the Chief Information Officer 
                with respect to the assessment conducted under 
                subsection (a).
                    (B) A description of the modifications proposed or 
                enacted to accreditation standards and processes 
                arising out of the assessment.
                    (C) A description of how the Department will 
                increasingly automate accreditation processes, pursue 
                agile development, incorporate machine learning, and 
                foster reciprocity across authorizing officials.

SEC. 1639. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES FOR CYBERSPACE SOLARIUM COMMISSION.

    Section 1652(k) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``September 1, 2019'' and 
        inserting ``February 1, 2020''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and intelligence 
        committees'' and inserting ``committees, the congressional 
        intelligence committees, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives''.

SEC. 1640. MODIFICATION OF ELEMENTS OF ASSESSMENT REQUIRED FOR 
              TERMINATION OF DUAL-HAT ARRANGEMENT FOR COMMANDER OF THE 
              UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND.

    Section 1642(b)(2)(C) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (130 Stat. 2601; Public Law 114-328) is amended--
            (1) in clause (ii), by inserting ``and national 
        intelligence operations'' after ``operations'';
            (2) by amending clause (iii) to read as follows:
                            ``(iii) The tools, weapons, and accesses 
                        used in and available for military cyber 
                        operations are sufficient for achieving 
                        required effects and United States Cyber 
                        Command is capable of acquiring or developing 
                        these tools, weapons, and accesses.''; and
            (3) by amending clause (vi) to read as follows:
                            ``(vi) The cyber mission force has achieved 
                        full operational capability and has 
                        demonstrated the capacity to execute the cyber 
                        missions of the Department, including--
                                    ``(I) execution of national-level 
                                missions through cyberspace, including 
                                deterrence and disruption of adversary 
                                cyber activity;
                                    ``(II) defense of the Department of 
                                Defense Information Network; and
                                    ``(III) support for other combatant 
                                commands, including targeting of 
                                adversary military assets.''.

SEC. 1641. USE OF NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY CYBERSECURITY EXPERTISE TO 
              SUPPORT ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL CYBERSECURITY PRODUCTS.

    (a) Advisory Mission.--The National Security Agency shall, as a 
mission in its role in securing the information systems of the 
Department of Defense, advise and assist the Department of Defense in 
its acquisition and adaptation of cybersecurity products and services 
from industry, especially the commercial cybersecurity sector.
    (b) Program to Improve Acquisition of Cybersecurity Products and 
Services.--
            (1) Establishment.--Consistent with paragraph (1), the 
        Director of the National Security Agency shall establish a 
        permanent program consisting of market research, testing, and 
        expertise transmission, or augments to existing programs, to 
        improve the acquisition by the Department of cybersecurity 
        products and services.
            (2) Requirements.--Under the program established pursuant 
        to paragraph (1), the Director shall, independently and at the 
        request of components of the Department--
                    (A) test and evaluate commercially-available 
                cybersecurity products and services using--
                            (i) generally known cyber operations 
                        techniques; and
                            (ii) tools and cyber operations techniques 
                        and advanced tools and techniques available to 
                        the National Security Agency;
                    (B) develop and establish standard procedures, 
                techniques, and threat-informed metrics to perform the 
                testing and evaluation required by subparagraph (A); 
                and
                    (C) advise the Secretary of Defense on the merits 
                and disadvantages of evaluated cybersecurity products, 
                including with respect to--
                            (i) any synergies between products;
                            (ii) value;
                            (iii) matters relating to operation and 
                        maintenance; and
                            (iv) matters relating to customization 
                        requirements.
            (3) Limitations.--The program established under paragraph 
        (1) shall not--
                    (A) by used to accredit cybersecurity products and 
                services for use by the Department;
                    (B) create approved products lists; or
                    (C) be used for acquisition contracts for the 
                procurement and fielding of cybersecurity products on 
                behalf of the Department.

SEC. 1642. STUDY ON FUTURE CYBER WARFIGHTING CAPABILITIES OF DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Study Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall direct the 
Defense Science Board to carry out a study on the future cyber 
warfighting capabilities of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Participation.--Participants in the study shall include the 
following:
            (1) Such members of the Board, including members of the 
        Task Force on Cyber Deterrence of the Board, as the Chairman of 
        the Board considers appropriate for the study.
            (2) Such additional temporary members or contracted support 
        as the Secretary--
                    (A) selects from those recommended by the Chairman 
                for purposes of the study; and
                    (B) considers to have significant technical, 
                policy, or military expertise.
    (c) Elements.--The study conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A technical evaluation of the Joint Cyber Warfighting 
        Architecture of the Department, especially the Unified 
        Platform, Joint Cyber Command and Control, and Persistent Cyber 
        Training Environment, including with respect to the following:
                    (A) The suitability of the requirements and, as 
                relevant, the delivered capability of such architecture 
                to modern cyber warfighting.
                    (B) Such requirements or capabilities as may be 
                absent or underemphasized in such architecture.
                    (C) The speed of development and acquisition as 
                compared to mission need.
                    (D) Identification of potential duplication of 
                efforts among the programs and concepts evaluated.
                    (E) The coherence of such architecture with the 
                National Mission Teams and Combat Mission Teams of the 
                Cyber Mission Force, as constituted and organized on 
                the day before the date of the enactment of this Act.
                    (F) The coherence of such architecture with the 
                Cyber Protection Teams of the Cyber Mission Force and 
                the cybersecurity service providers of the Department, 
                as constituted and organized on the day before the date 
                of the enactment of this Act.
                    (G) The coherence of such architecture with the 
                concepts of persistent engagement and defending forward 
                as incorporated in the 2018 Department of Defense Cyber 
                Strategy, including with respect to operational 
                concepts such as consistent spy-on-spy deterrence, 
                securing adversary operating pictures, and preemptively 
                feeding indicators and warning to defensive operators.
            (2) A technical evaluation of the tool development and 
        acquisition programs of the Department, including with respect 
        to the following:
                    (A) The suitability of planned tool suite and cyber 
                armory constructs of the United States Cyber Command to 
                modern cyber warfighting.
                    (B) The speed of development and acquisition as 
                compared to mission need.
                    (C) The resourcing and effectiveness of the 
                internal tool development of the United States Cyber 
                Command as compared to the tool development of the 
                National Security Agency.
                    (D) The resourcing and effectiveness of the 
                internal tool development of the United States Cyber 
                Command as compared to its acquisition.
                    (E) The coherence of such programs with the 
                concepts of persistent engagement and defending forward 
                as incorporated in the 2018 Department of Defense Cyber 
                Strategy, including with respect to operational 
                concepts such as consistent spy-on-spy deterrence, 
                securing adversary operating pictures, and preemptively 
                feeding indicators and warning to defensive operators.
            (3) An evaluation of the operational planning and targeting 
        of the United States Cyber Command, including support for 
        regional combatant commands, and suitability for modern cyber 
        warfighting.
            (4) Development of such recommendations as the Board may 
        have for legislative or administrative action relating to the 
        future cyber warfighting capabilities of the Department.
    (d) Access to Information.--The Secretary shall provide the Board 
with timely access to appropriate information, data, resources, and 
analysis so that the Board may conduct a thorough and independent 
analysis as required under this section.
    (e) Report.--
            (1) Transmittal to secretary.--Not later than November 1, 
        2021, the Board shall transmit to the Secretary a final report 
        on the study conducted pursuant to subsection (a).
            (2) Transmittal to congress.--Not later than 30 days after 
        the date on which the Secretary receives the final report under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees such report and such comments as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.

SEC. 1643. AUTHORITY TO USE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR CYBER 
              OPERATIONS-PECULIAR CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 134 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2243 the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2243a. Authority to use operation and maintenance funds for 
              cyber operations-peculiar capability development projects
    ``(a) In General.--Subject to subsection (c), the covered officials 
may each use amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available for the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance, 
to carry out cyber operations-peculiar capability development projects.
    ``(b) Covered Officials.--For purposes of this section, the covered 
officials are as follows:
            ``(1) The Secretary of the Army.
            ``(2) The Secretary of the Navy.
            ``(3) The Secretary of the Air Force.
            ``(4) The Commandant of the Marine Corps.
    ``(c) Limitation.--In a fiscal year, the aggregate amount that may 
be used by a single covered official under subsection (a) may not 
exceed $3,000,000.
    ``(d) Relationship to Other Laws.--The authority in subsection (a) 
may be used without regard to any provision of law establishing a limit 
on the unit cost of an investment item that may be purchased with funds 
made available for operation and maintenance.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2243 the following new item:

``2243a. Authority to use operation and maintenance funds for cyber 
                            operations-peculiar capability development 
                            projects.''.
    (c) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--In each of fiscal years 2021, 2022, and 
        2023, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the use of the 
        authority provided under section 2243a(a) of title 10, United 
        States Code, as added by subsection (a), during the previous 
        fiscal year.
            (2) Timing.--Each report submitted pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) shall be submitted concurrently with the annual budget 
        request of the President submitted pursuant to section 1105 of 
        title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 1644. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY FOR ACCESS AND INFORMATION RELATING 
              TO CYBERATTACKS ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OPERATIONALLY 
              CRITICAL CONTRACTORS.

    Section 391(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(A) include mechanisms for Department personnel--
                            ``(i) if requested by an operationally 
                        critical contractor, to assist the contractor 
                        in detecting and mitigating penetrations; or
                            ``(ii) at the request of the Department, to 
                        obtain access to equipment or information of an 
                        operationally critical contractor necessary to 
                        conduct a forensic analysis, in addition to any 
                        analysis conducted by the contractor; and''; 
                        and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking ``to determine whether 
                        information'' and inserting the following: ``to 
                        determine whether--
                            ``(i) information'';
                            (ii) in clause (i), as so designated--
                                    (I) by inserting ``or compromised 
                                on'' after ``exfiltrated from''; and
                                    (II) by striking the period at the 
                                end and inserting ``or compromised; 
                                or''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new clause:
                            ``(ii) the ability of the contractor to 
                        provide operationally critical support has been 
                        affected and, if so, how and to what extent it 
                        has been affected.'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``, so as to minimize 
        delays in or any curtailing of the Department's cyber response 
        and defensive actions'' after ``specific person''; and
            (3) in paragraph (5)(C), by inserting `` or 
        counterintelligence activities'' after ``investigations''.

SEC. 1645. BRIEFING ON MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RELATING TO JOINT 
              OPERATIONAL PLANNING AND CONTROL OF CYBER ATTACKS OF 
              NATIONAL SCALE.

    (a) Briefing Required.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary 
of Defense shall provide the appropriate committees of Congress a 
briefing on the Joint Department of Defense and Department of Homeland 
Security Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Secretary of Defense 
on October 6, 2018.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) The number of planners assigned by the Department of 
        Defense to line of effort three and line of effort four and the 
        areas of expertise of those planners.
            (2) Whether the planners described in paragraph (1) are 
        physically co-located with their counterparts in the Department 
        of Homeland Security and are assigned full-time or part-time to 
        line of effort three and line of effort four.
            (3) Whether the planners described in paragraph (1) are 
        developing operational plans and playbooks that will be 
        implemented in response to actual cyber attacks of national 
        scale or whether the planning activities are limited to 
        planning and exercise scenarios.
            (4) Whether the official in charge of the planners assigned 
        to line of effort three and line of effort four has or will 
        have operational control of a Federal response to a cyber 
        attack of national scale.
            (5) Whether the National Cyber Strategy, published in 
        September 2018, provides for a standing joint multi-agency 
        organization and staff to plan and direct operational responses 
        to cyber attacks of national scale.
            (6) The charter and implementation plan of the Joint 
        Department of Defense and Department of Homeland Security Cyber 
        Protection and Defense Steering Group required by the 
        memorandum of understanding described in subsection (a).
    (c) Definition of Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this 
section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the congressional defense committees;
            (2) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate; and
            (3) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 1646. STUDY TO DETERMINE THE OPTIMAL STRATEGY FOR STRUCTURING AND 
              MANNING ELEMENTS OF THE JOINT FORCE HEADQUARTERS-CYBER 
              ORGANIZATIONS, JOINT MISSION OPERATIONS CENTERS, AND 
              CYBER OPERATIONS-INTEGRATED PLANNING ELEMENTS.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Principal Cyber Advisor of the 
        Department of Defense shall conduct a study to determine the 
        optimal strategy for structuring and manning elements of the 
        following:
                    (A) Joint Force Headquarters-Cyber organizations.
                    (B) Joint Mission Operations Centers.
                    (C) Cyber Operations-Integrated Planning Elements.
            (2) Elements.--The study conducted under subsection (a) 
        shall include assessment of the following:
                    (A) Operational effects on the military services if 
                the entities listed in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of 
                paragraph (1) are restructured from organizations that 
                are service component organizations to joint 
                organizations.
                    (B) Organizational effects on the military services 
                if the billets associated with the entities listed in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C) of paragraph (1) are 
                transferred to United States Cyber Command and 
                designated as joint billets for joint qualification 
                purposes.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Principal Cyber Advisor shall 
        submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a 
        report on the study conducted under subsection (a).
            (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall contain the following:
                    (A) The findings of the Principal Cyber Advisor 
                with respect to the study conducted under subsection 
                (a).
                    (B) Details of the operational and organizational 
                effects assessed under subsection (a)(2).
                    (C) A plan to carry out the transfer described in 
                subsection (a)(2)(B) and the associated costs.
                    (D) Such other matters as the Principal Cyber 
                Advisor considers appropriate.

SEC. 1647. CYBER GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES AND PRINCIPAL CYBER ADVISORS ON 
              MILITARY CYBER FORCE MATTERS.

    (a) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, each Secretary of a military 
        department shall designate a Principal Cyber Advisor to act as 
        the principal advisor to the Secretary of the military 
        department on the cyber forces, cyber programs, and 
        cybersecurity matters of the military department, including 
        matters relating to weapons systems, enabling infrastructure, 
        and the defense industrial base.
            (2) Nature of position.--Each Principal Cyber Advisor 
        position under paragraph (1) shall be a senior civilian 
        leadership position.
    (b) Responsibilities Principal Cyber Advisors.--Each Principal 
Cyber Advisor of a military department shall be responsible for 
advising the Secretary of the military department and coordinating and 
overseeing the implementation of policy, strategies, sustainment, and 
plans on the following:
            (1) The resourcing and training of the military cyber 
        forces of the military department and ensuring that such 
        resourcing and training meets the needs of United States Cyber 
        Command.
            (2) Acquisition of offensive and defensive cyber 
        capabilities for the military cyber forces of the military 
        department.
            (3) Cybersecurity management and operations of the military 
        department.
            (4) Acquisition of cybersecurity tools and capabilities for 
        the cybersecurity service providers of the military department.
            (5) Improving and enforcing a culture of cybersecurity 
        warfighting and responsibility throughout the military 
        department.
    (c) Administrative Matters.--
            (1) Designation of individuals.--In designating a Principal 
        Cyber Adviser under subsection (a), the Secretary of a military 
        department may designate an individual in an existing position 
        in the military department.
            (2) Coordination.--The Principal Cyber Advisor of a 
        military department shall work in close coordination with the 
        Principal Cyber Advisor of the Department of Defense, the Chief 
        Information Officer of the Department, relevant military 
        service chief information officers, and other relevant military 
        service officers to ensure service compliance with the 
        Department of Defense Cyber Strategy.
    (d) Responsibility to the Senior Acquisition Executives.--In 
addition to the responsibilities set forth in subsection (b), the 
Principal Cyber Advisor of a military department shall be responsible 
for advising the senior acquisition executive of the military 
department and, as determined by the Secretary of the military 
department, for advising and coordinating and overseeing the 
implementation of policy, strategies, sustainment, and plans for--
            (1) cybersecurity of the industrial base; and
            (2) cybersecurity of Department of Defense information 
        systems and information technology services, including how 
        cybersecurity threat information is incorporated and the 
        development of cyber practices, cyber testing, and mitigation 
        of cybersecurity risks.
    (e) Review of Current Responsibilities.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2021, each 
        Secretary of a military department shall review the military 
        department's current governance model for cybersecurity with 
        respect to current authorities and responsibilities.
            (2) Elements.--Each review under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of whether additional changes 
                beyond the designation of a Principal Cyber Advisor 
                pursuant to subsection (a) are required.
                    (B) Consideration of whether the current governance 
                structure and assignment of authorities--
                            (i) enable effective top-down governance;
                            (ii) enable effective Chief Information 
                        Officer and Chief Information Security Officer 
                        action;
                            (iii) are adequately consolidated so that 
                        the authority and responsibility for 
                        cybersecurity risk management is clear and at 
                        an appropriate level of seniority;
                            (iv) provides authority to a single 
                        individual to certify compliance of Department 
                        information systems and information technology 
                        services with all current cybersecurity 
                        standards; and
                            (v) support efficient coordination across 
                        the military departments and services, the 
                        Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Defense 
                        Information Systems Agency, and United States 
                        Cyber Command.
    (f) Briefing.--Not later than February 1, 2021, each Secretary of a 
military department shall brief the congressional defense committees on 
the findings of the Secretary with respect to the review conducted by 
the Secretary under subsection (e).

SEC. 1648. DESIGNATION OF TEST NETWORKS FOR TESTING AND ACCREDITATION 
              OF CYBERSECURITY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.

    (a) Designation.--Not later than April 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall designate, for use by the Defense Information Systems 
Agency and such other components of the Department of Defense as the 
Secretary considers appropriate, three test networks for the testing 
and accreditation of cybersecurity products and services.
    (b) Requirements.--The networks designated under subsection (a) 
shall--
            (1) be of sufficient scale to realistically test 
        cybersecurity products and services;
            (2) feature substantially different architectures and 
        configurations;
            (3) be live, operational networks; and
            (4) feature cybersecurity processes, tools, and 
        technologies that are appropriate for test purposes and 
        representative of the processes, tools, and technologies that 
        are widely used throughout the Department.

SEC. 1649. CONSORTIA OF UNIVERSITIES TO ADVISE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE ON 
              CYBERSECURITY MATTERS.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish one or 
more consortia to advise and assist the Secretary on matters relating 
to cybersecurity.
    (b) Membership.--The consortium or consortia established under 
subsection (a) shall consist of universities that have been designated 
as centers of academic excellence by the Director of the National 
Security Agency or the Secretary of Homeland Security.
    (c) Organization.--
            (1) Designation of administrative chair and terms.--For 
        each consortium established under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary, based on recommendations from the members of the 
        consortium, shall designate one member of the consortium to 
        function as an administrative chair of the consortium for a 
        term with a specific duration specified by the Secretary.
            (2) Subsequent terms.--No member of a consortium designated 
        under paragraph (1) may serve as the administrative chair of 
        that consortium for two consecutive terms.
            (3) Duties of administrative chair.--Each administrative 
        chair designated under paragraph (1) for a consortium shall--
                    (A) act as the leader of the consortium for the 
                term specified by the Secretary under paragraph (1);
                    (B) be the liaison between the consortium and the 
                Secretary;
                    (C) distribute requests from the Secretary for 
                advice and assistance to appropriate members of the 
                consortium and coordinate responses back to the 
                Secretary; and
                    (D) act as a clearinghouse for Department of 
                Defense requests relating to advice and assistance on 
                matters relating to cybersecurity and to provide 
                feedback to the Secretary from members of the 
                consortium.
    (d) Functions.--The functions of a consortium established under 
subsection (a) are as follows:
            (1) To provide to the Secretary access to the expertise of 
        the members of the consortium on matters relating to 
        cybersecurity.
            (2) To align the efforts of such members in support of the 
        Department.
            (3) To act as a facilitator in responding to Department 
        requests relating to advice and assistance on matters relating 
        to cybersecurity and to provide feedback to the Secretary from 
        members of the consortium.
    (e) Procedures.--The Secretary shall establish procedures for 
organizations within the Department to access the work product produced 
by and the research, capabilities, and expertise of a consortium 
established under subsection (a) and the universities that constitute 
the consortium.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

SEC. 1661. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO NUCLEAR COMMAND, 
              CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.

    (a) Duties and Powers of Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment.--Section 133b(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7) as 
        paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph (4):
            ``(4) establishing policies for, and providing oversight, 
        guidance, and coordination with respect to, the nuclear 
        command, control, and communications system;''; and
            (3) in paragraph (6), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by 
        inserting after ``overseeing the modernization of nuclear 
        forces'' the following: ``, including the nuclear command, 
        control, and communications system,''.
    (b) Duties and Responsibilities of Chief Information Officer.--
Section 142(b)(1) of such title is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraph (G); and
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (H) and (I) as 
        subparagraphs (G) and (H), respectively.

SEC. 1662. EXPANSION OF OFFICIALS REQUIRED TO CONDUCT BIENNIAL 
              ASSESSMENTS OF DELIVERY PLATFORMS FOR NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND 
              NUCLEAR COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM.

    Section 492(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) the Commander of the United States Air Forces in 
        Europe.''.

SEC. 1663. CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO COUNCIL ON OVERSIGHT OF THE NATIONAL 
              LEADERSHIP COMMAND, CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.

    Section 171a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``, Technology, and Logistics'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``and Sustainment''.

SEC. 1664. PROHIBITION ON REDUCTION OF THE INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC 
              MISSILES OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided by subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense shall be 
obligated or expended for--
            (1) reducing, or preparing to reduce, the responsiveness or 
        alert level of the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the 
        United States; or
            (2) reducing, or preparing to reduce, the quantity of 
        deployed intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United 
        States to a number less than 400.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to any of the following activities:
            (1) The maintenance or sustainment of intercontinental 
        ballistic missiles.
            (2) Ensuring the safety, security, or reliability of 
        intercontinental ballistic missiles.

SEC. 1665. BRIEFING ON LONG-RANGE STANDOFF WEAPON AND SEA-LAUNCHED 
              CRUISE MISSILE.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in 
consultation with the Administrator for Nuclear Security, shall provide 
to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a briefing on opportunities--
            (1) to increase commonality between the long-range standoff 
        weapon and the sea-launched cruise missile; and
            (2) to leverage, in the development of the sea-launched 
        cruise missile, technologies developed, or under development as 
        of the date of the briefing, as part of the long-range standoff 
        weapon program.

SEC. 1666. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON INDUSTRIAL BASE FOR GROUND-BASED 
              STRATEGIC DETERRENT PROGRAM.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) ensuring the viability of an industrial base of at 
        least two domestic producers of large solid rocket motors for 
        the ground-based strategic deterrent program is an important 
        national security interest; and
            (2) in continuing to carry out that program, the Secretary 
        of Defense should--
                    (A) strive to maintain competition and proper 
                vendor capabilities in order to maintain the best value 
                for the Government;
                    (B) consider the long-term health and viability of 
                the industrial base when structuring and awarding major 
                procurement or development contracts; and
                    (C) when appropriate, structure programs to provide 
                stability to the industrial base by maintaining 
                continued production for an extended period.

SEC. 1667. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON NUCLEAR DETERRENCE COMMITMENTS OF THE 
              UNITED STATES.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) credible extended deterrence commitments make key 
        contributions to the security of the United States, 
        international stability, and the nonproliferation objectives of 
        the United States;
            (2) the nuclear forces of the United States, as well as the 
        independent nuclear forces of other members of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization (in this section referred to as 
        ``NATO''), continue to play a critical role in national 
        security strategy of the United States and the security of the 
        NATO alliance;
            (3) the forward-deployment of dual-capable aircraft 
        operated by the United States, and the participation of certain 
        NATO members in the nuclear deterrence mission, are vitally 
        important to the deterrence and defense posture of NATO;
            (4) such aircraft provide a credible and flexible nuclear 
        capability that plays a fundamental role in regional deterrence 
        and effectively assuring allies and partners of the commitment 
        of the United States to their security; and
            (5) nuclear-certified F-35A aircraft provide the most 
        advanced nuclear fighter capability in the current and future 
        anti-access area denial environments.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

SEC. 1671. IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET DEFENSE SYSTEM AND ISRAELI 
              COOPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAM CO-DEVELOPMENT AND 
              CO-PRODUCTION.

    (a) Iron Dome Short-Range Rocket Defense System.--
            (1) Availability of funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
        appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal 
        year 2020 for procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the 
        Missile Defense Agency, not more than $95,000,000 may be 
        provided to the Government of Israel to procure components for 
        the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system through co-
        production of such components in the United States by industry 
        of the United States.
            (2) Conditions.--
                    (A) Agreement.--Funds described in paragraph (1) 
                for the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program 
                shall be available subject to the terms and conditions 
                in the Agreement Between the Department of Defense of 
                the United States of America and the Ministry of 
                Defense of the State of Israel Concerning Iron Dome 
                Defense System Procurement, signed on March 5, 2014, as 
                amended to include co-production for Tamir 
                interceptors.
                    (B) Certification.--Not later than 30 days prior to 
                the initial obligation of funds described in paragraph 
                (1), the Director of the Missile Defense Agency and the 
                Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
                congressional committees--
                            (i) a certification that the amended 
                        bilateral international agreement specified in 
                        subparagraph (A) is being implemented as 
                        provided in such agreement; and
                            (ii) an assessment detailing any risks 
                        relating to the implementation of such 
                        agreement.
    (b) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, David's Sling 
Weapon System Co-production.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3), of the funds 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for 
        procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile 
        Defense Agency not more than $50,000,000 may be provided to the 
        Government of Israel to procure the David's Sling Weapon 
        System, including for co-production of parts and components in 
        the United States by United States industry.
            (2) Agreement.--(A) Provision of funds specified in 
        paragraph (1) shall be subject to the terms and conditions in 
        the bilateral co-production agreement, including--
                    (i) a one-for-one cash match is made by Israel or 
                in another matching amount that otherwise meets best 
                efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United States and 
                Israel); and
                    (ii) co-production of parts, components, and all-up 
                rounds (if appropriate) in the United States by United 
                States industry for the David's Sling Weapon System is 
                not less than 50 percent.
            (3) Certification and assessment.--The Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees--
                    (A) a certification that the Government of Israel 
                has demonstrated the successful completion of the 
                knowledge points, technical milestones, and production 
                readiness reviews required by the research, 
                development, and technology agreement and the bilateral 
                co-production agreement for the David's Sling Weapon 
                System; and
                    (B) an assessment detailing any risks relating to 
                the implementation of such agreement.
    (c) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
Interceptor Program Co-Production.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for 
        procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile 
        Defense Agency not more than $55,000,000 may be provided to the 
        Government of Israel for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
        Program, including for co-production of parts and components in 
        the United States by United States industry.
            (2) Certification.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a certification that--
                    (A) the Government of Israel has demonstrated the 
                successful completion of the knowledge points, 
                technical milestones, and production readiness reviews 
                required by the research, development, and technology 
                agreement for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
                Program;
                    (B) funds specified in paragraph (1) will be 
                provided on the basis of a one-for-one cash match made 
                by Israel or in another matching amount that otherwise 
                meets best efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United 
                States and Israel);
                    (C) the United States has entered into a bilateral 
                international agreement with Israel that establishes, 
                with respect to the use of such funds--
                            (i) in accordance with subparagraph (D), 
                        the terms of co-production of parts and 
                        components on the basis of the greatest 
                        practicable co-production of parts, components, 
                        and all-up rounds (if appropriate) by United 
                        States industry and minimizes nonrecurring 
                        engineering and facilitization expenses to the 
                        costs needed for co-production;
                            (ii) complete transparency on the 
                        requirement of Israel for the number of 
                        interceptors and batteries that will be 
                        procured, including with respect to the 
                        procurement plans, acquisition strategy, and 
                        funding profiles of Israel;
                            (iii) technical milestones for co-
                        production of parts and components and 
                        procurement;
                            (iv) a joint affordability working group to 
                        consider cost reduction initiatives; and
                            (v) joint approval processes for third-
                        party sales; and
                    (D) the level of co-production described in 
                subparagraph (C)(i) for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
                Interceptor Program is not less than 50 percent.
    (d) Number.--In carrying out paragraph (2) of subsection (b) and 
paragraph (2) of subsection (c), the Under Secretary may submit--
            (1) one certification covering both the David's Sling 
        Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program; 
        or
            (2) separate certifications for each respective system.
    (e) Timing.--The Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees the certification and assessment under subsection 
(b)(3) and the certification under subsection (c)(2) by not later than 
30 days before the funds specified in paragraph (1) of subsections (b) 
and (c) for the respective system covered by the certification are 
provided to the Government of Israel.
    (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
            (1) The congressional defense committees.
            (2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 1672. EXPANSION OF NATIONAL MISSILE DEFENSE POLICY AND PROGRAM 
              REDESIGNATION.

    (a) Sense of the Senate.--It is the Sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States must continue to pursue a 
        comprehensive missile defense strategy that will deliver 
        integrated and effective capabilities to counter ballistic, 
        cruise, and hypersonic missile threats;
            (2) adversaries are quickly expanding the capabilities of 
        their existing missile systems, adding new and unprecedented 
        types of missile capabilities to their arsenals, and further 
        integrating offensive missiles into their coercive threats, 
        military exercises, and war planning;
            (3) both Russia and China are rapidly enhancing their 
        existing offensive missile systems and developing advanced sea-
        , ground-, and air-launched cruise missiles as well as 
        hypersonic capabilities;
            (4) due to the proliferation of offensive ballistic and 
        cruise missiles and the emergence of game-changing hypersonic 
        weapons technologies, all of which threaten regional balances, 
        our allies and partners, United States deployed armed forces, 
        and the United States homeland, missile defenses become an even 
        more critical element of United States strategy; and
            (5) the United States must outpace adversary offensive 
        missile capabilities.
    (b) Expansion of Policy.--Section 1681(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 
2431 note) is amended by striking ``ballistic missile threat'' and 
inserting ``ballistic, cruise, and hypersonic missile threats''.
    (c) Redesignation Requirement.--Not later than the date on which 
the President submits to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, the annual budget request of the President for 
fiscal year 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall, as the Secretary 
considers appropriate, redesignate all strategies, policies, programs, 
and systems under the jurisdiction of the Secretary to reflect that 
missile defense programs of the United States defend against ballistic, 
cruise, and hypersonic missiles in all phases of flight.

SEC. 1673. ACCELERATION OF THE DEPLOYMENT OF PERSISTENT SPACE-BASED 
              SENSOR ARCHITECTURE.

    (a) Sense of the Senate.--It is the Sense of the Senate that--
            (1) Congress has expressed support for a space-based 
        missile defense sensor program, in the two most recent enacted 
        National Defense Authorization Acts;
            (2) the Secretary of Defense should rapidly develop and 
        deploy a persistent, space-based sensor architecture to ensure 
        missile defenses of the United States are more effective 
        against ballistic missile threats and more responsive to 
        emergent threats from hypersonic and cruise missiles;
            (3) the responsibility for developing and deploying a 
        hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor should remain 
        within the Director of the Missile Defense Agency; and
            (4) the Director of the Missile Defense Agency should 
        deploy a hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor 
        constellation as soon as technically feasible.
    (b) Assignment of Primary Responsibility for Development and 
Deployment of Hypersonic and Ballistic Tracking Space Sensor.--Not 
later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) assign the Director of the Missile Defense Agency with 
        the principal responsibility for the development and deployment 
        of a hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor; and
            (2) submit to the congressional defense committees 
        certification of such assignment.
    (c) Certification Regarding Funding of Hypersonic and Ballistic 
Tracking Space Sensor Program.--At the same time that the President 
submits to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States 
Code, the annual budget request of the President for fiscal year 2021, 
the Under Secretary of Defense Comptroller and the Director for Cost 
Assessment and Program Evaluation shall jointly certify to the 
congressional defense committees whether the hypersonic and ballistic 
tracking space sensor program is sufficiently funded in the future-
years defense program for the Missile Defense Agency.
    (d) Deployment Deadline.--Section 1683(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 
2431 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a) In General.--'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) Development, Testing, and Deployment.--
            ``(1) Development.--''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(2) Testing and deployment.--The Director shall begin on-
        orbit testing of a hypersonic and ballistic tracking space 
        sensor no later than December 31, 2021, with full operational 
        deployment as soon as technically feasible thereafter.
            ``(3) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the 
        deadline for testing specified in paragraph (2) if the 
        Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a 
        report containing--
                    ``(A) the explanation why the Secretary cannot meet 
                such deadline;
                    ``(B) the technical risks and estimated cost of 
                accelerating the program to attempt to meet such 
                deadline;
                    ``(C) an assessment of threat systems that could 
                not be detected or tracked persistently due to waiving 
                such deadline; and
                    ``(D) a plan, including a timeline, for beginning 
                the required testing.''.
    (e) Report on Progress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
        progress of all efforts being made by the Missile Defense 
        Agency, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Air 
        Force, and the Space Development Agency relating to space-based 
        sensing and tracking capabilities for missile defense and how 
        each of such organizations will work together to avoid 
        duplication of efforts.
            (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 1674. NONSTANDARD ACQUISITION PROCESSES OF MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY.

    (a) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Department of Defense needs to provide capabilities 
        at the speed of relevance that are more lethal, and to ensure 
        acquisition processes fulfill the needs of members of the Armed 
        Forces now and in the future;
            (2) significant defense acquisition reforms enacted over 
        the past three National Defense Authorization Acts have 
        improved access to nontraditional and commercial innovation and 
        to expanded flexible acquisition authorities in the development 
        of alternative acquisition pathways to acquire critical 
        national security capabilities;
            (3) the Department appropriately recently recognized the 
        Missile Defense Agency for its acquisition success by 
        presenting it with the 2018 David Packard Excellence in 
        Acquisition Award for the development of the Space-Based Kill 
        Assessment (SKA) program and the Missile Defense Agency should 
        be commended for its numerous and rapid acquisition successes;
            (4) the recently completed Missile Defense Review 
        explicitly highlights, in stark terms, the threat posed to the 
        United States by ballistic and hypersonic missile threats; and
            (5) the Missile Defense Agency should maintain its 
        nonstandard acquisition authorities in order to continue to 
        rapidly design, test, and deliver critically needed defensive 
        capabilities to the warfighter.
    (b) Changes to Nonstandard Acquisition Processes and 
Responsibilities.--
            (1) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
        appropriated by this Act may be obligated or expended to change 
        the nonstandard acquisition processes and responsibilities 
        described in paragraph (2) until the Secretary--
                    (A) has consulted with the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Research and Engineering, the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Policy, the secretaries of the 
                military departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
                of Staff, the Commander of United States Strategic 
                Command (USSTRATCOM), the Commander of United States 
                Northern Command (USNORTHCOM), and the Director of the 
                Missile Defense Agency;
                    (B) certifies to the congressional defense 
                committees that the Secretary has coordinated the 
                changes with and received the views of the individuals 
                referred to in subparagraph (A);
                    (C) submits to the congressional defense committees 
                a report describing the changes, the rationale for the 
                changes, and the views of the individuals referred to 
                in subparagraph (A) with respect to such changes; and
                    (D) a period of 270 days has elapsed since 
                submittal of the report under subparagraph (C).
            (2) Nonstandard acquisition processes and responsibilities 
        described.--The nonstandard acquisition processes and 
        responsibilities described in this paragraph are such processes 
        and responsibilities described in--
                    (A) the memorandum of the Secretary of Defense 
                titled ``Missile Defense Program Direction'' signed on 
                January 2, 2002; and
                    (B) Department of Defense Directive 5134.09, as in 
                effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1675. PLAN FOR THE REDESIGNED KILL VEHICLE.

    (a) Report Required.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
delay in the Redesigned Kill Vehicle Program.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the reason for the delay.
            (2) An overview of the revised program schedule including a 
        revised test plan and revised acquisition strategy.
            (3) A detailed description of any recommendations that 
        could be utilized to accelerate the scheduled fielding 
        including modifications to the acquisition strategy or the 
        procurement and assembly of long-lead materials unaffected by 
        the reason for the delay.
            (4) A timeline associated with such recommendations.
            (5) Additional funding required to carry out such 
        recommendations.
            (6) An assessment of risk associated with such 
        recommendations.
            (7) A description of any recommendations that were 
        submitted to the Director by contractors that the Director 
        considers reasonable but were not adopted.
            (8) An explanation as to why the recommendations described 
        in paragraph (7) were not adopted.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.

SEC. 1676. REPORT ON IMPROVING GROUND-BASED MIDCOURSE DEFENSE ELEMENT 
              OF BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on--
            (1) options to increase the capability, capacity, and 
        reliability of the ground-based midcourse defense element of 
        the United States ballistic missile defense system; and
            (2) the infrastructure requirements for increasing the 
        number of ground-based interceptors as part of such element.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An assessment of the requirements of the ground-based 
        midcourse defense element of the United States ballistic 
        missile defense system to meet threats outlined in the 2018 
        National Defense Strategy and the 2019 Missile Defense Review.
            (2) An assessment of the feasibility of fielding up to 104 
        ground-based interceptors as part of such element, including a 
        description of the additional infrastructure and components 
        needed to further outfit missile fields at Fort Greely, Alaska.
            (3) A cost estimate of such infrastructure and components.
            (4) An estimated schedule for completing such construction 
        as may be required for such infrastructure and components.
            (5) An identification of any environmental assessments or 
        impact studies that would need to be conducted to expand 
        missile fields at Fort Greely beyond current capacity.
            (6) A determination of the appropriate fleet mix of ground-
        based interceptor kill vehicles and boosters to maximize 
        overall system effectiveness and increase its capacity and 
        capability, including the costs and benefits of continued 
        inclusion of capability enhancement II block 1 interceptors 
        after the fielding of the redesigned kill vehicle.
            (7) The modernization requirements for the ground-based 
        midcourse system, including all command and control, ground 
        systems, sensors and sensor interfaces, boosters and kill 
        vehicles, and integration of known future systems and 
        components.
            (8) A discussion of the obsolescence of such systems and 
        components.
            (9) The industrial base requirements relating to the 
        ground-based midcourse system, as determined by the Director of 
        the Missile Defense Agency.
            (10) Such other matters as the Director considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 1677. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON RECENT MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY TESTS.

    It is the Sense of the Senate that the Office of the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, the Missile Defense 
Agency, the Office of the Director for Operational Test and Evaluation, 
the operational test agencies, the military departments, and 
warfighters should--
            (1) be strongly commended for a highly successful 2018 
        flight test campaign, which consisted of 13 total flight test 
        events including--
                    (A) FTX-35, which successfully proved 
                interoperability between Terminal High Altitude Area 
                Defense (THAAD) and the Phased Array Tracking Radar to 
                Intercept on Target (PATRIOT) to detect and track a 
                simulated engagement with a short-range ballistic 
                missile;
                    (B) Pacific Dragon 2018, which successfully 
                demonstrated joint ballistic missile defense 
                interoperability with Japan and Korea to engage a 
                short-range ballistic missile with a Standard Missile 3 
                (SM-3) Block IB by a Japanese ship and an Aegis Ashore 
                site;
                    (C) JFTM-5, which successfully demonstrated the 
                intercept of an short-range ballistic missile with a 
                Standard Missile 3 Block IB threat upgrade from a 
                Japanese ship;
                    (D) FTM-45, which successfully demonstrated the 
                intercept of a medium-range ballistic missile with a 
                Standard Missile 3 Block IIA from a United States ship; 
                and
                    (E) FTI-03, which as a part of the operational test 
                of the European Phased Adaptive Approach (EPAA) Phase 3 
                architecture, successfully demonstrated the intercept 
                of an intermediate-range ballistic missile using the 
                Aegis Weapon System's Engage-on-Remote capability; and
            (2) be especially recognized for the success of FTG-11, the 
        first salvo test of the United States of the Ground-based 
        Midcourse Defense system, during which two ground-based 
        interceptors were launched nearly simultaneously from the same 
        location and successfully intercepted the kill vehicle of a 
        threat-representative intercontinental ballistic missile 
        target, and then the next most lethal object.

SEC. 1678. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON MISSILE DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY 
              DEVELOPMENT PRIORITIES.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the 2019 Missile Defense Review articulates a 
        comprehensive approach to preventing and defeating the rapidly 
        expanding offensive missile threat through a combination of 
        deterrence, active and passive missile defense, and attack 
        operations;
            (2) to counter the expanding offense missile capabilities 
        of potential adversaries and hedge against unanticipated 
        missile threats, the Secretary of Defense should aggressively 
        pursue new missile defense capabilities and examine concepts 
        and technologies for advanced missile defense systems;
            (3) the Secretary should fully implement the 2019 Missile 
        Defense Review's focus on increasing investments in and 
        deploying new technologies and concepts; and
            (4) the Secretary should work to ensure that all missile 
        defense systems are more survivable, including through--
                    (A) more distributed air and missile defense 
                operations; and
                    (B) improved camouflage, concealment, and 
                deception, including emission control.

SEC. 1679. PUBLICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT PREPARED FOR 
              CERTAIN POTENTIAL FUTURE MISSILE DEFENSE SITES.

    The Secretary of Defense shall make available to the public the 
environmental impact statement prepared pursuant to section 227(b) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (126 Stat. 
1679; Public Law 112-239).

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 1681. MATTERS RELATING TO MILITARY OPERATIONS IN THE INFORMATION 
              ENVIRONMENT.

    (a) Affirming the Authority of the Secretary of Defense to Conduct 
Military Operations in the Information Environment.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 19 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 397. Military operations in the information environment
    ``(a) Affirmation of Authority.--(1) Congress affirms that the 
Secretary of Defense is authorized to conduct military operations, 
including clandestine operations, in the information environment to 
defend the United States, allies of the United States, and interests of 
the United States, including in response to malicious influence 
activities carried out against the United States or a United States 
person by a foreign power.
    ``(2) The military operations referred to in paragraph (1), when 
appropriately authorized include the conduct of military operations 
short of hostilities and in areas outside of areas of active 
hostilities for the purpose of preparation of the environment, 
influence, force protection, and deterrence of hostilities.
    ``(b) Treatment of Clandestine Military Operations in the 
Information Environment as Traditional Military Activities.--A 
clandestine military operation in the information environment shall be 
considered a traditional military activity for the purposes of section 
503(e)(2) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3093(e)(2)).
    ``(c) Quarterly Information Operations Briefings.--(1) Not less 
frequently than once each quarter, the Secretary of Defense shall 
provide the congressional defense committees a briefing on significant 
military operations, including all clandestine operations in the 
information environment, carried out by the Department of Defense 
during the immediately preceding quarter.
    ``(2) Each briefing under subsection (1) shall include, with 
respect to the military operations in the information environment 
described in such paragraph, the following:
            ``(A) An update, disaggregated by geographic and functional 
        command, that describes the operations carried out by the 
        commands.
            ``(B) An overview of authorities and legal issues 
        applicable to the operations, including any relevant legal 
        limitations.
            ``(C) An outline of any interagency activities and 
        initiatives relating to the operations.
            ``(D) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    ``(d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit, expand, or otherwise alter the authority of the 
Secretary to conduct military operations, including clandestine 
operations, in the information environment, to authorize specific 
military operations, or to limit, expand, or otherwise alter or 
otherwise affect the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.) or 
an authorization for use of military force that was in effect on the 
day before the date of the enactment of this Act.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The terms `foreign person' and `United States person' 
        have the meanings given such terms in section 101 of the 
        Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801).
            ``(2) The term `hostilities' has the same meaning as such 
        term is used in the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et 
        seq.).
            ``(3) The term `clandestine military operation in the 
        information environment' means an operation or activity, or 
        associated preparatory actions, authorized by the President or 
        the Secretary of Defense, that--
                    ``(A) is marked by, held in, or conducted with 
                secrecy, where the intent is that the operation or 
                activity will not be apparent or acknowledged publicly; 
                and
                    ``(B) is to be carried out--
                            ``(i) as part of a military operation plan 
                        approved by the President or the Secretary of 
                        Defense;
                            ``(ii) to deter, safeguard, or defend 
                        against attacks or malicious influence 
                        activities against the United States, allies of 
                        the United States, and interests of the United 
                        States; or
                            ``(iii) in support of hostilities or 
                        military operations involving the United States 
                        armed forces; or
                            ``(iv) in support of military operations 
                        short of hostilities and in areas where 
                        hostilities are not occurring for the purpose 
                        of preparation of the environment, influence, 
                        force protection, and deterrence.''.
            (2) Clerical amendments.--
                    (A) Chapter 19.--
                            (i) Chapter heading.--The heading of 
                        chapter 19 of such title is amended to read as 
                        follows:

       ``CHAPTER 19--CYBER AND INFORMATION OPERATIONS MATTERS''.

                            (ii) Table of sections.--The table of 
                        sections at the beginning of chapter 19 of such 
                        title is amended by inserting at the end the 
                        following new item:

``397. Military operations in the information environment.''.
                    (B) Table of chapters.--The table of chapters for 
                part I of subtitle A of such title is amended by 
                striking the item relating to chapter 19 and inserting 
                the following new item:

``19. Cyber and Information Operations Matters..............     391''.
    (b) Principal Information Operations Advisor.--
            (1) Designation.--The Secretary of Defense shall designate, 
        from among officials appointed to a position in the Department 
        of Defense by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, a 
        Principal Information Operations Advisor to act as the 
        principal advisor to the Secretary on all aspects of 
        information operations conducted by the Department.
            (2) Responsibilities.--The Principal Information Operations 
        Advisor shall have the following responsibilities:
                    (A) Oversight of policy, strategy, planning, 
                resource management, operational considerations, 
                personnel, and technology development across all the 
                elements of information operations of the Department.
                    (B) Overall integration and supervision of the 
                deterrence of, conduct of, and defense against 
                information operations.
                    (C) Promulgation of policies to ensure adequate 
                coordination and deconfliction with the Department of 
                State, the intelligence community (as defined in 
                section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
                U.S.C. 3003)), and other relevant agencies and 
                departments of the Federal Government.
                    (D) Coordination with the head of the Global 
                Engagement Center to support the purpose of the Center 
                (as set forth by section 1287(a)(2) of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public 
                Law 114-328; 22 U.S.C. 2656 note)) and liaison with the 
                Center and other relevant Federal Government entities 
                to support such purpose.
                    (E) Establishing and supervising a rigorous risk 
                management process to mitigate the risk of potential 
                exposure of United States Persons to information 
                intended exclusively for foreign audiences.
                    (F) Development of guidance for, and promotion of, 
                the capability of the Department to liaison with the 
                private sector and academia on matters relating to the 
                influence activities of malign actors.
                    (G) Such other matters relating to information 
                operations as the Secretary shall specify for purposes 
                of this subsection.
    (c) Cross-functional Team.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Principal Information Operations 
        Advisor shall integrate the expertise in all elements of 
        information operations and perspectives of appropriate 
        organizations within the Office of the Secretary of Defense, 
        Joint Staff, military departments, Defense Agencies, and 
        combatant commands by establishing and maintaining a full-time 
        cross-functional team composed of subject-matter experts 
        selected from those organizations.
            (2) Selection and organization.--The cross-functional team 
        established under paragraph (1) shall be selected, organized, 
        and managed in a manner consistent with section 911 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public 
        Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 111 note).
    (d) Designation of Coordinating Authority.--
            (1) Designation.--The Secretary of Defense shall designate 
        United States Special Operations Command as the coordinating 
        authority for information operations of the Department.
            (2) Responsibilities.--The combatant command designated 
        under paragraph (1) shall be responsible for the following:
                    (A) Synchronizing the Department's information 
                operations plans and operations across combatant 
                commands.
                    (B) Acting as the joint proponent for information 
                operations capabilities.
    (e) Strategy and Posture Review.--
            (1) Strategy and posture review required.--The Secretary of 
        Defense, acting through the Principal Information Operations 
        Advisor and the cross-functional team established under 
        subsection (c)(1), shall--
                    (A) develop or update, as appropriate, a strategy 
                for operations in the information environment; and
                    (B) conduct an information operations posture 
                review, including an analysis of capability gaps that 
                inhibit the Department's ability to successfully 
                execute the strategy developed or updated pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A).
            (2) Elements.--At a minimum, the strategy developed or 
        updated pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) shall include the 
        following:
                    (A) The establishment of lines of effort, 
                objectives, and tasks that are necessary to implement 
                the strategy and eliminate the gaps identified under 
                paragraph (1)(B).
                    (B) Designation of offices of primary 
                responsibility for implementing and achieving the tasks 
                as set forth in the strategy.

SEC. 1682. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR PROTECTION OF CERTAIN 
              FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.

    Section 130i(i) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``2020'' both places it appears and inserting ``2024''.

SEC. 1683. HARD AND DEEPLY BURIED TARGETS.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 1, 2019, the 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall, in consultation 
        with the Commander of the United States Strategic Command, 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a classified 
        report on hard and deeply buried targets.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An estimate of the total number of high-value 
                hard and deeply buried targets associated with Unites 
                States military operations plans.
                    (B) A description of the contents, functions, and 
                hardening characteristics of the targets described in 
                subparagraph (A), as well as their level of protection 
                by anti-access and area denial capabilities.
                    (C) An assessment of the current ability of the 
                United States to hold such targets at risk using 
                existing conventional and nuclear capabilities.
                    (D) An assessment of the potential ability of the 
                United States to hold such targets at risk using 
                projected conventional and nuclear capabilities as of 
                2030.
    (b) Plan.--Not later than February 15, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall develop a plan to ensure that the United States possesses 
by 2025 the capabilities to pose a credible deterrent threat against 
targets described in the report required by subsection (a).
    (c) Certification.--Not later than March 1, 2020, and annually 
thereafter, the Secretary shall certify to the congressional defense 
committees that the plan required by subsection (b) is being 
implemented in accordance with the 2025 deadline specified in that 
subsection.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020''.

SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE 
              SPECIFIED BY LAW.

    (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Five Years.--Except as 
provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI 
through XXVII and title XXIX for military construction projects, land 
acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and contributions 
to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program 
(and authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the 
later of--
            (1) October 1, 2024; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for military construction for fiscal year 2025.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations 
for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing 
projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been 
obligated before the later of--
            (1) October 1, 2024; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for fiscal year 2025 for military construction projects, land 
        acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
        contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        Security Investment Program.

SEC. 2003. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX shall take effect on the 
later of--
            (1) October 1, 2019; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                        Installation                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.....................................  Redstone Arsenal.................................      $38,000,000
Colorado....................................  Fort Carson......................................      $71,000,000
Georgia.....................................  Fort Gordon......................................     $107,000,000
                                              Hunter Army Airfield.............................      $62,000,000
Kentucky....................................  Fort Campbell....................................      $61,300,000
Massachusetts...............................  Soldier Systems Center Natick....................      $50,000,000
Michigan....................................  Detroit Arsenal..................................      $24,000,000
New York....................................  Fort Drum........................................      $44,000,000
North Carolina..............................  Fort Bragg.......................................      $12,500,000
Oklahoma....................................  Fort Sill........................................      $73,000,000
Pennsylvania................................  Carlisle Barracks................................      $98,000,000
South Carolina..............................  Fort Jackson.....................................      $88,000,000
Texas.......................................  Corpus Christi Army Depot........................      $86,000,000
                                              Fort Hood........................................      $50,500,000
Virginia....................................  Fort Belvoir.....................................      $60,000,000
                                              Joint Base Langley-Eustis........................      $55,000,000
Washington..................................  Joint Base Lewis-McChord.........................      $46,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                       Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Honduras......................................  Soto Cano Air Base.............................      $34,000,000
Japan.........................................  Kadena Air Base................................      $80,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.

    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:

                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country                 Installation or Location             Units                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pennsylvania...........................  Tobyhanna Army Depot.......  Family Housing                 $19,000,000
                                                                       Replacement Construction
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $9,222,000.

SEC. 2103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2101 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2104. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2019 PROJECT.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2019 (division B of Public Law 115-232) for Anniston Army Depot, 
Alabama, for construction of a weapon maintenance shop, the Secretary 
of the Army may construct a 21,000 square foot weapon maintenance shop.

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                  Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona......................................  Yuma............................................     $189,760,000
California...................................   Camp Pendleton.................................     $185,569,000
                                               China Lake......................................      $64,500,000
                                               Coronado........................................     $165,830,000
                                               Marine Corps Air Station Miramar................      $37,400,000
                                               Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego............       $9,900,000
                                               Seal Beach......................................     $123,310,000
                                               Travis Air Force Base...........................      $64,000,000
 Connecticut.................................   New London.....................................      $72,260,000
Florida......................................  Naval Air Station Jacksonville..................      $32,420,000
                                               Marine Corps Support Facility Blount Island.....      $18,700,000
Hawaii.......................................  Kaneohe Bay.....................................     $134,050,000
                                               West Loch.......................................      $53,790,000
North Carolina...............................  Camp Lejeune....................................     $229,010,000
                                               Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point...........     $166,870,000
                                               New River.......................................      $11,320,000
South Carolina...............................  Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island........      $37,200,000
Virginia.....................................  Norfolk.........................................      $79,100,000
                                               Portsmouth......................................      $48,930,000
                                               Quantico........................................     $143,350,000
                                               Yorktown........................................      $59,000,000
Washington...................................  Bremerton.......................................      $51,010,000
                                               Keyport.........................................      $25,050,000
                                               Kitsap..........................................      $48,000,000
Unspecified CONUS............................  Zulu............................................      $59,600,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia.....................................  Darwin..........................................    $211,500,000
Bahrain Island................................  Southwest Asia..................................     $53,360,000
Guam..........................................  Joint Region Marianas...........................    $226,000,000
Italy.........................................  Sigonella.......................................     $77,400,000
Japan.........................................  Iwakuni.........................................     $15,870,000
                                                Yokosuka........................................    $174,692,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural and engineering 
services and construction design activities with respect to the 
construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to 
exceed $5,863,000.

SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2204(a) of this Act and available for military family housing 
functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Navy may improve existing military family housing 
units in an amount not to exceed $41,798,000.

SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Navy, as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2201 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                       Air Force: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska.........................................  Eielson Air Force Base......................         $8,600,000
Arkansas.......................................  Little Rock Air Force Base..................        $47,000,000
California.....................................  Travis Air Force Base.......................        $43,100,000
Colorado.......................................  Peterson Air Force Base.....................        $54,000,000
                                                 Schriever Air Force Base....................       $148,000,000
Illinois.......................................  Scott Air Force Base........................       $100,000,000
Missouri.......................................  Whiteman Air Force Base.....................        $27,000,000
Montana........................................  Malmstrom Air Force Base....................       $235,000,000
Nevada.........................................  Nellis Air Force Base.......................        $65,200,000
New Mexico.....................................  Holloman Air Force Base.....................        $20,000,000
                                                 Kirtland Air Force Base.....................        $37,900,000
 North Dakota..................................  Minot Air Force Base........................         $5,500,000
Texas..........................................  Joint Base San Antonio......................       $207,300,000
Utah...........................................  Hill Air Force Base.........................       $114,500,000
Washington.....................................  Fairchild Air Force Base....................        $31,000,000
Wyoming........................................  F.E. Warren Air Force Base..................        $18,100,000
Unspecified CONUS..............................  Zulu........................................        $31,200,000
Unspecified Worldwide..........................  Zulu........................................       $230,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia......................................  Tindal......................................        $70,600,000
Cyprus.........................................  Royal Air Force Akrotiri....................        $27,000,000
Guam...........................................  Joint Region Marianas.......................        $65,000,000
Japan..........................................  Kadena Air Base.............................        $31,500,000
                                                 Misawa Air Base.............................         $5,300,000
                                                 Yokota Air Base.............................        $12,400,000
Jordan.........................................  Azraq.......................................        $66,000,000
Mariana Islands................................  Tinian......................................       $316,000,000
United Kingdom.................................  Royal Air Force Lakenheath..................        $14,300,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out architectural and 
engineering services and construction design activities with respect to 
the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $3,409,000.

SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2304(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an 
amount not to exceed $53,584,000.

SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Air Force, as specified in 
the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2301 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2305. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2015 PROJECT.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2015 (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3679) for Royal Air 
Force Croughton, for JIAC Consolidation Phase 1, the location shall be 
Royal Air Force Molesworth, United Kingdom.

SEC. 2306. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2016 PROJECT.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (division B of Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1153) for JIAC 
Consolidation Phase 2, as modified by section 2305 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of 
Public Law 115-232) for an unspecified location in the United Kingdom, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 5,152 square meter 
intelligence analytic center, a 5,234 square meter intelligence fusion 
center, and a 807 square meter battlefield information collection and 
exploitation system center at Royal Air Force Molesworth, United 
Kingdom.

SEC. 2307. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2017 PROJECT.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2017 (division B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2697) for JIAC 
Consolidation Phase 3, as modified by section 2305 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of 
Public Law 115-32) for an unspecified location in the United Kingdom, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 1,562 square meter 
regional joint intelligence training facility and a 4,495 square meter 
combatant command intelligence facility at Royal Air Force Molesworth, 
United Kingdom.

SEC. 2308. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2018 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Joint Base San Antonio.--In the case of the authorization 
contained in the table in section 2301(a) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115-
91; 131 Stat. 1826) for Joint Base San Antonio, Texas--
            (1) for construction of a dining and classroom facility the 
        Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 750 square meter 
        equipment building; and
            (2) for construction of an air traffic control tower the 
        Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 636 square meter air 
        traffic control tower.
    (b) Rygge.--In the case of the authorization contained in the table 
in section 2903 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1876) for 
Rygge, Norway, for repairing and expanding a quick reaction alert pad, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may construct 1,327 square meters of 
aircraft shelter and a 404 square meter fire protection support 
building.

SEC. 2309. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2019 PROJECTS.

    (a) Hanscom Air Force Base.--In the case of the authorization 
contained in the table in section 2301(a) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115-
232) for Hanscom Air Force Base, Massachusetts, for the construction of 
a semiconductor or microelectronics lab facility, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may construct a 1,000 kilowatt stand-by generator.
    (b) Royal Air Force Lakenheath.--In the case of the authorization 
contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115-
232) for Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom, for the 
construction of an F-35 dormitory, the Secretary of the Air Force may 
construct a 5,900 square meter dormitory.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California....................................  Beale Air Force Base............................     $33,700,000
                                                Camp Pendleton..................................     $17,700,000
CONUS Classified..............................  Classified Location.............................     $82,200,000
Florida.......................................  Elgin Air Force Base............................     $16,500,000
                                                Hurlburt Field..................................    $108,386,000
                                                Key West........................................     $16,000,000
Hawaii........................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam..................     $67,700,000
Maryland......................................  Fort Detrick....................................     $27,846,000
Mississippi...................................  Columbus Air Force Base.........................     $16,800,000
 North Carolina...............................  Camp Lejeune....................................     $13,400,000
                                                Fort Bragg......................................     $84,103,000
Oklahoma......................................  Tulsa International Airport.....................     $18,900,000
Rhode Island..................................  Quonset State Airport...........................     $11,600,000
South Carolina................................  Joint Base Charleston...........................     $33,300,000
South Dakota..................................  Ellsworth Air Force Base........................     $24,800,000
Virginia......................................  Dam Neck........................................     $12,770,000
                                                Defense Distribution Depot Richmond.............     $98,800,000
                                                Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story     $45,604,000
                                                Pentagon........................................     $28,802,000
 Washington...................................  Joint Base Lewis-McChord........................     $47,700,000
Wisconsin.....................................  General Mitchell International Airport..........     $25,900,000
Unspecified CONUS.............................  Zulu............................................    $100,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Country                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany......................................  Geilenkirchen Air Base........................        $30,479,000
                                               Ramstein Air Base.............................        $66,880,000
 Guam........................................  Joint Region Marianas.........................        $19,200,000
Japan........................................  Yokota Air Base...............................       $136,411,000
Worldwide Classified.........................  Classified Location...........................        $52,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2402. AUTHORIZED ENERGY RESILIENCE AND CONSERVATION INVESTMENT 
              PROGRAM PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy 
conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United States 
Code, for the installations or locations inside the United States, and 
in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                    ERCIP Projects: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                 Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California...................................  Mountain View.................................         $9,700,000
                                               Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake..........         $8,950,000
                                               Naval Support Activity Monterey...............        $10,540,000
 Hawaii......................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam................         $4,000,000
Louisiana....................................  Joint Reserve Base Naval Air Station New               $5,340,000
                                                Orleans......................................
Maryland.....................................  South Potomac.................................        $18,460,000
                                               Naval Support Activity Bethesda...............        $13,840,000
New Mexico...................................  White Sands Missile Range.....................         $5,800,000
Texas........................................  Fort Hood.....................................        $16,500,000
                                               Camp Swift....................................         $4,500,000
Virginia.....................................  National Reconnaissance Office Headquarters...            $66,000
Washington...................................  Naval Base Kitsap.............................        $23,670,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy 
conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United States 
Code, for the installations or locations outside the United States, and 
in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                    ERCIP Projects: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Country                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Guam.........................................  Naval Base Guam...............................        $16,970,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2401 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to 
exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this 
purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously 
financed by the United States.

SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.

    (a) Authorization.--Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, for contributions 
by the Secretary of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United 
States Code, for the share of the United States of the cost of projects 
for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program 
authorized by section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 
4601.
    (b) Authority to Recognize NATO Authorization Amounts as Budgetary 
Resources for Project Execution.--When the United States is designated 
as the Host Nation for the purposes of executing a project under the 
NATO Security Investment Program (NSIP), the Department of Defense 
construction agent may recognize the NATO project authorization amounts 
as budgetary resources to incur obligations for the purposes of 
executing the NSIP project.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

SEC. 2511. REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for required in-
kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military 
construction projects for the installations or locations, and in the 
amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                 Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        Installation or
             Country                   Component           Location             Project             Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Korea...........................  Army..............  Camp Carroll......  Army Prepositioned  $51,000,000
                                                                           Stock-4 Wheeled
                                                                           Vehicle
                                                                           Maintenance
                                                                           Facility.........
                                  Army..............  Camp Humphreys....  Unaccompanied       $154,000,000
                                                                           Enlisted
                                                                           Personnel
                                                                           Housing, P1......
                                  Army..............  Camp Humphreys....  Unaccompanied       $211,000,000
                                                                           Enlisted
                                                                           Personnel
                                                                           Housing, P2......
                                  Army..............  Camp Humphreys....  Satellite           $32,000,000
                                                                           Communications
                                                                           Facility.........
                                  Air Force.........  Gwangju Air Base..  Hydrant Fuel        $35,000,000
                                                                           System Upgrade
                                                                           Electrical.......
                                  Air Force.........  Kunsan Air Base...  Distribution        $14,200,000
                                                                           System...........
                                  Air Force.........  Kunsan Air Base...  Dining Facility...  $21,000,000
                                  Air Force.........  Suwon Air Base....  Hydrant Fuel        $24,000,000
                                                                           System...........
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army National Guard locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                               Army National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.....................................  Anniston Army Depot..............................      $34,000,000
                                              Foley............................................      $12,000,000
California..................................  Camp Roberts.....................................      $12,000,000
Idaho.......................................  Orchard Training Area............................      $29,000,000
Maryland....................................  Havre de Grace...................................      $12,000,000
Massachusetts...............................  Camp Edwards.....................................       $9,700,000
Minnesota...................................  New Ulm..........................................      $11,200,000
Mississippi.................................  Camp Shelby......................................       $8,100,000
Missouri....................................  Springfield......................................      $12,000,000
Nebraska....................................  Bellevue.........................................      $29,000,000
New Hampshire...............................  Concord..........................................       $5,950,000
New York....................................  Jamaica Armory...................................      $91,000,000
Pennsylvania................................  Moon Township....................................      $23,000,000
Vermont.....................................  Camp Ethan Allen.................................      $30,000,000
Washington..................................  Richland.........................................      $11,400,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army Reserve locations inside the United 
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                                  Army Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Delaware......................................  Dover Air Force Base...........................      $21,000,000
Wisconsin.....................................  Fort McCoy.....................................      $25,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
              CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in 
the following table:

                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Louisiana.....................................  New Orleans....................................      $25,260,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air National Guard locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California....................................  Moffett Air National Guard Base................      $57,000,000
Georgia.......................................  Savannah/Hilton Head International Airport.....      $24,000,000
Missouri......................................  Rosecrans Memorial Airport.....................       $9,500,000
Puerto Rico...................................  Luis Munoz Marin International Airport.........      $50,000,000
Wisconsin.....................................  Truax Field Air National Guard Base............      $34,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air Force Reserve locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                                Air Force Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia.......................................  Robins Air Force Base..........................      $43,000,000
Minnesota.....................................  Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport.....       $9,800,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2019, for the costs of acquisition, 
architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities 
for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of 
acquisition of land for those facilities), as specified in the funding 
table in section 4601.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
              CLOSURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              BASE CLOSURE ACCOUNT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2019, for base realignment and closure 
activities, including real property acquisition and military 
construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base 
Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended by 
section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2140)), as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2702. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING ADDITIONAL BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
              CLOSURE (BRAC) ROUND.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an additional 
Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

               Subtitle A--Military Construction Program

SEC. 2801. MILITARY INSTALLATION RESILIENCE PLANS AND PROJECTS OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Plans and Projects.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 169 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new sections:
``Sec. 2815. Military installation resilience plans
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of each military department shall 
ensure the maintenance and enhancement of military installation 
resilience through the development and implementation of military 
installation resilience plans under this section for each military 
installation under the jurisdiction of such Secretary that is in a 
coastal area.
    ``(b) Military Installation Resilience Plans for National Guard 
Installations.--The Secretary of a military department, subject to the 
availability of appropriations, may develop and implement a military 
installation resilience plan for a State-owned installation of the 
National Guard that is in a coastal area if--
            ``(1) such a plan is developed and implemented in 
        coordination with the chief executive officer of the State in 
        which the installation is located; and
            ``(2) such a plan is deemed, for purposes of any other 
        provision of law, to be for lands or other geographical areas 
        owned or controlled by the Department of Defense, or designated 
        for use by the Department of Defense.
    ``(c) Required Elements of Plans.--To the extent appropriate and 
applicable, each military installation resilience plan under this 
section shall provide for the following:
            ``(1) A qualitative and, to the extent practicable, 
        quantitative assessment of--
                    ``(A) current risks and threats to the resilience 
                of the military installation, including from extreme 
                weather events, mean sea level fluctuation, flooding, 
                and other changes in environmental conditions; and
                    ``(B) future risks and threats, including from 
                extreme weather events, mean sea level fluctuation, 
                flooding, and other changes in environmental 
                conditions, based on projections from reliable and 
                authorized sources as described in section 2805(c) of 
                the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
                Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 
                2864 note), to the resilience of any project considered 
                in the master plan for the installation under section 
                2864 of this title during the 50-year lifespan of the 
                installation.
            ``(2) A description of the--
                    ``(A) assets or infrastructure located on the 
                installation vulnerable to the risks and threats 
                described in paragraph (1), with special emphasis on 
                assets or infrastructure critical to the accomplishment 
                of the missions of the installation and missions of any 
                members of the armed forces stationed at the 
                installation; and
                    ``(B) community infrastructure and resources 
                located outside the military installation that are--
                            ``(i) critical to the accomplishment of the 
                        missions of the military installation and of 
                        members of the armed forces stationed at the 
                        installation; and
                            ``(ii) vulnerable to the risks and threats 
                        described in paragraph (1).
            ``(3) A description of the--
                    ``(A) current or planned infrastructure projects or 
                other measures to mitigate the impacts of risks and 
                threats described in paragraph (1) to the resilience of 
                the military installation and the accomplishment of the 
                missions of the military installation and missions of 
                members of the armed forces stationed at the 
                installation;
                    ``(B) estimated costs associated with such current 
                or planned infrastructure projects or other mitigation 
                measures; and
                    ``(C) current or planned interagency agreements, 
                cooperative agreements, memoranda of agreement, or 
                other agreements with other Federal agencies, Indian 
                tribes, State or local governments or entities, or 
                other organizations or individuals for the purpose of 
                or that will assist in maintaining or enhancing 
                military installation resilience and the resilience of 
                the community infrastructure and resources described in 
                paragraph (2)(B).
    ``(d) Consistency and Integration With Other Plans.--The Secretary 
of each military department shall ensure that each military 
installation resilience plan prepared by such Secretary under this 
section is--
            ``(1) consistent with the integrated natural resource 
        management plan of the Secretary required by section 
        101(a)(1)(B) of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670a);
            ``(2) consistent with and integrated into the installation 
        energy resilience master plan of the Secretary required by 
        section 2911(b)(3) of this title; and
            ``(3) consistent with and integrated into the installation 
        master plan of the Secretary required by section 2864 of this 
        title.
    ``(e) Inclusion of Certain Projects.--The Secretary of each 
military department shall include in military installation resilience 
plans under this section projects or improvements to facilities 
conducted using amounts for sustainment, restoration, and 
modernization.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `community infrastructure' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 2391(e)(4) of this title.
            ``(2) The term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and 
        Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).''.
``Sec. 2815a. Military installation resilience projects
    ``(a) Projects Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
military construction projects for military installation resilience, 
not previously authorized, using funds authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available for that purpose.
    ``(b) Congressional Notification.--(1) When a decision is made to 
carry out a project under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees of that decision.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall include in each notification 
submitted under paragraph (1) the rationale for how the project would--
            ``(A) enhance military installation resilience;
            ``(B) enhance mission assurance;
            ``(C) support mission critical functions; and
            ``(D) address known vulnerabilities.
    ``(c) Timing of Projects.--A project may be carried out under this 
section only after the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date 
that notification with respect to that project under subsection (b) is 
received by the congressional defense committees in an electronic 
medium pursuant to section 480 of this title.
    ``(d) Annual Report.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the status of the planned and active 
projects carried out under this section (including completed projects), 
and shall include in the report with respect to each such project the 
following information:
            ``(1) The title, location, a brief description of the scope 
        of work, the original project cost estimate, and the current 
        working cost estimate.
            ``(2) The rationale for how the project would--
                    ``(A) enhance military installation resilience;
                    ``(B) enhance mission assurance;
                    ``(C) support mission critical functions; and
                    ``(D) address known vulnerabilities.
            ``(3) Such other information as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Department of Defense to carry out this section 
$100,000,000 for each fiscal year.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 169 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 2814 the following new 
        items:

``2815. Military installation resilience plans.
``2815a. Military installation resilience projects.''.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on the extent to which military 
        installation resilience plans were prepared or implemented in 
        accordance with section 2815 of title 10, United States Code, 
        as added by subsection (a)(1).
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The number of military installation resilience 
                plans in effect, including the date on which each plan 
                was issued in final form or most recently revised.
                    (B) The amounts expended on mitigation measures 
                conducted pursuant to or consistent with such plans, 
                including moving critical military functions of the 
                Department of Defense to less vulnerable military 
                installations.
                    (C) An assessment of the extent to which such plans 
                comply with section 2815 of title 10, United States 
                Code, as added by subsection (a)(1).

SEC. 2802. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO REDUCE AIR BASE RESILIENCY OR 
              DEMOLISH PROTECTED AIRCRAFT SHELTERS IN THE EUROPEAN 
              THEATER WITHOUT CREATING A SIMILAR PROTECTION FROM 
              ATTACK.

    No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020 may 
be obligated or expended to implement any activity that reduces air 
base resiliency or demolishes protected aircraft shelters in the 
European theater without creating a similar protection from attack in 
the European theater until such time as the Secretary of Defense 
certifies to the congressional defense committees that protected 
aircraft shelters are not required in the European theater.

SEC. 2803. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CLOSE OR RETURN TO THE HOST 
              NATION ANY EXISTING AIR BASE.

    No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020 may 
be obligated or expended to implement any activity that closes or 
returns to the host nation any existing air base until such time as the 
Secretary of Defense certifies that there is no longer a need for a 
rotational military presence in the European theater.

SEC. 2804. INCREASED AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN UNSPECIFIED MINOR MILITARY 
              CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the limitations specified in 
section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary concerned 
may carry out unspecified minor military construction projects in an 
amount not to exceed $12,000,000 at the following installations:
            (1) Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida.
            (2) Camp Ashland, Nebraska.
            (3) Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska.
            (4) Camp Lejeune, North Carolina.
            (5) Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, North Carolina.
    (b) Adjustment of Limitation.--The Secretary concerned may adjust 
the dollar limitation specified in subsection (a) applicable to a 
project described in such subsection to reflect the area construction 
cost index for military construction projects published by the 
Department of Defense during the prior fiscal year for the location of 
the project, except that no such limitation may exceed $19,000,000 as 
the result of any adjustment made under this subsection.
    (c) Termination.--The authority under this section shall terminate 
on the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 2805. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS TO INSTALLATION 
              RESILIENCE.

    (a) Defense Access Roads.--Section 210 of title 23, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``(a)(1) The Secretary'' 
        and all that follows through the end of paragraph (1) and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(a) Authorization.--
            ``(1) In general.--Of the funds appropriated for defense 
        access roads, the Secretary may use such amounts as are 
        appropriate for--
                    ``(A) the construction and maintenance of defense 
                access roads (including bridges, tubes, tunnels, and 
                culverts or other water management structures on those 
                roads) to--
                            ``(i) military reservations;
                            ``(ii) defense industry sites;
                            ``(iii) air or sea ports that, as 
                        determined by the Secretary, in consultation 
                        with the Secretary of Defense, are necessary 
                        for or are planned to be used for the 
                        deployment or sustainment of members of the 
                        Armed Forces, equipment, or supplies; or
                            ``(iv) sources of raw materials;
                    ``(B) the reconstruction or enhancement of, or 
                improvements to, those roads to ensure the continued 
                effective use of the roads, regardless of current or 
                projected increases in mean high tides, recurrent 
                flooding, or other weather-related conditions or 
                natural disasters, in any case in which the roads are 
                certified to the Secretary as important to the national 
                defense by--
                            ``(i) the Secretary of Defense; or
                            ``(ii) such other official as the President 
                        may designate; and
                    ``(C) replacing existing highways and highway 
                connections that are shut off from general public use 
                by necessary closures, closures due to mean sea level 
                fluctuation and flooding, or restrictions at--
                            ``(i) military reservations;
                            ``(ii) air or sea ports that are necessary 
                        for or are planned to be used for the 
                        deployment or sustainment of members of the 
                        Armed Forces, equipment, or supplies; or
                            ``(iii) defense industry sites.'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``the construction and 
        maintenance of'' and inserting ``the construction, maintenance, 
        reconstruction, or improvement of, or enhancements to,'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``him'' and inserting ``the 
                Secretary'';
                    (B) by striking ``construction, maintenance, and 
                repair work'' and inserting ``activities for 
                construction, maintenance, reconstruction, enhancement, 
                improvement, and repair'';
                    (C) by striking ``therein'' and inserting ``in 
                those areas''; and
                    (D) by striking ``condition for such training 
                purposes and for repairing the damage caused to such 
                highways by the operations'' and inserting the 
                following: ``condition for--
            ``(1) that training; and
            ``(2) repairing the damage to those highways caused by--
                    ``(A) weather-related events, increases in mean 
                high tide levels, recurrent flooding, or natural 
                disasters; or
                    ``(B) the operations'';
            (4) in subsection (g), in the second sentence, by striking 
        ``construction which has been'' and inserting ``construction 
        and other activities''; and
            (5) by striking subsection (i) and inserting the following:
    ``(i) Repair of Certain Damages and Infrastructure.--The amounts 
made available to carry out this section may be used to pay the cost of 
repairing damage caused, or any infrastructure to mitigate a risk 
posed, to a defense access road by recurrent or projected recurrent 
flooding, sea level fluctuation, a natural disaster, or any other 
current or projected change in applicable environmental conditions, if 
the Secretary determines that continued access to a military 
installation, defense industry site, air or sea port necessary for or 
planned to be used for the deployment or sustainment of members of the 
Armed Forces, equipment, or supplies, or to a source of raw materials, 
has been or is projected to be impacted by those events or 
conditions.''.
    (b) Study on Certain Threats to Military Installation Resilience.--
            (1) Study.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the 
                Secretary of Defense shall complete a comprehensive 
                study, to be conducted by the Director of the Engineer 
                Research and Development Center of the Army Corps of 
                Engineers, on the risks posed by coastal or inland 
                flooding, mean sea level fluctuation, and storm surge 
                to the military installation resilience of military 
                installations and State-owned installations of the 
                National Guard that the Secretary determines are 
                vulnerable to those risks.
                    (B) Coordination.--The study under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be conducted in coordination with other elements 
                of the Army Corps of Engineers, other Federal agencies, 
                and State, local, and tribal officials to ensure 
                consistency with other plans or pre-disaster and risk 
                mitigation measures being planned or taken in the areas 
                within the scope of the study.
            (2) Risk mitigation measures.--The study required by 
        paragraph (1)(A) shall include the identification of and 
        recommendations concerning ongoing or potential risk mitigation 
        measures, including on lands and waters not under the 
        jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, including authorized 
        projects of the Army Corps of Engineers and current or 
        potential projects under the Continuing Authorities Program of 
        the Corps of Engineers, that would contribute to preserving or 
        enhancing the military installation resilience of military 
        installations and State-owned installations of the National 
        Guard within the scope of the study.
            (3) Barriers to maintaining and enhancing resilience.--The 
        study required by paragraph (1)(A) shall identify 
        institutional, administrative, legislative, and other barriers 
        to preserving and enhancing the military installation 
        resilience of the installations determined by such study to be 
        vulnerable to the risks posed by coastal or inland flooding, 
        sea level rise, or storm surge.
            (4) Reports.--
                    (A) Initial report.--Not later than one year after 
                the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
                committees a report providing the status of, interim 
                results for, and an expected completion date for the 
                study required by paragraph (1)(A).
                    (B) Final report.--Not later than two years after 
                the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
                shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
                final report on the study required by paragraph (1)(A).
            (5) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Congressional defense committees; military 
                installation resilience.--The terms ``congressional 
                defense committees'' and ``military installation 
                resilience'' have the meanings given those terms in 
                section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
                    (B) Continuing authorities program of the corps of 
                engineers.--The term ``Continuing Authorities Program 
                of the Corps of Engineers'' means any of the programs 
                listed in section 1030(a) of the Water Resources Reform 
                and Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 400).
    (c) Update of United Facilities Criteria to Include Changing 
Environmental Condition Projections.--Section 2805(c) of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Not later than'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) Fiscal year 2019.--Not later than'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
        striking ``United Facilities Criteria (UFC) 2-100-01 and UFC 2-
        100-02'' and inserting ``United Facilities Criteria (UFC) 1-
        200-01 and UFC 1-200-02''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Fiscal year 2020.--Not later than 30 days after the 
        date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall amend the 
        United Facilities Criteria (UFC) as follows:
                    ``(A) To require that installations of the 
                Department of Defense assess the risks from extreme 
                weather and related effects and develop plans to 
                address those risks.
                    ``(B) To require in the design of any military 
                construction project the use of the following weather 
                projections:
                            ``(i) Population projections from the 
                        Bureau of the Census.
                            ``(ii) Land use change projections and 
                        weather projections from the National Academy 
                        of Sciences.
                            ``(iii) Land use change projections through 
                        the use of land use and land cover modeling by 
                        the United States Geological Survey.
                            ``(iv) Weather projections from the United 
                        States Global Change Research Program, 
                        including in the National Climate Assessment.
                            ``(v) Weather projections developed through 
                        the use of Localized Constructed Analogs 
                        Statistical Downscaling.
                            ``(vi) Weather projections developed 
                        through the Earth Exchange program of the 
                        National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
                            ``(vii) Weather projections included in the 
                        technical report NOS CO-OPS 083 set forth by 
                        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                        Administration.
                            ``(viii) Any customized, high-resolution 
                        model weather projections developed by the 
                        Strategic Environmental Research and 
                        Development Program for specific regions with 
                        the goal of assessing the vulnerability of 
                        installations of the Department.
                    ``(C) To require the Secretary to provide guidance 
                to project designers and master planners on how to use 
                weather projections.
                    ``(D) To require the use throughout the Department 
                of the Naval Facilities Engineering Command Climate 
                Change Installation Adaptation and Resilience planning 
                handbook.''.

                      Subtitle B--Land Conveyances

SEC. 2811. RELEASE OF INTERESTS RETAINED IN CAMP JOSEPH T. ROBINSON, 
              ARKANSAS, FOR USE OF SUCH LAND AS A VETERANS CEMETERY.

    (a) Release of Retained Interests.--
            (1) In general.--With respect to a parcel of land at Camp 
        Joseph T. Robinson, Arkansas, consisting of approximately 
        141.52 acres that lies in a part of section 35, township 3 
        north, range 12 west, Pulaski County, Arkansas, and comprising 
        a portion of the property conveyed by the United States to the 
        State of Arkansas for training of the National Guard and for 
        other military purposes pursuant to ``An Act authorizing the 
        transfer of part of Camp Joseph T. Robinson to the State of 
        Arkansas'', approved June 30, 1950 (64 Stat. 311, chapter 429), 
        the Secretary of the Army may release the terms and conditions 
        imposed, and reversionary interests retained, by the United 
        States under section 2 of such Act, and the right to reenter 
        and use the property retained by the United States under 
        section 3 of such Act.
            (2) Impact on other rights or interests.--The release of 
        terms and conditions and retained interests under paragraph (1) 
        with respect to the parcel described in such paragraph shall 
        not be construed to alter the rights or interests retained by 
        the United States with respect to the remainder of the real 
        property conveyed to the State of Arkansas under the Act 
        described in such paragraph.
    (b) Instrument of Release and Description of Property.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army may execute and 
        file in the appropriate office a deed of release, amended deed, 
        or other appropriate instrument reflecting the release of terms 
        and conditions and retained interests under subsection (a).
            (2) Legal description.--The exact acreage and legal 
        description of the property described in subsection (a) shall 
        be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the 
        Army.
    (c) Conditions on Release and Reversionary Interest.--
            (1) Expansion of veterans cemetery and reversionary 
        interest.--
                    (A) Expansion of veterans cemetery.--The State of 
                Arkansas may use the parcel of land described in 
                subsection (a)(1) only for the expansion of the 
                Arkansas State Veterans Cemetery.
                    (B) Reversionary interest.--If the Secretary of the 
                Army determines at any time that the parcel of land 
                described in subsection (a)(1) is not being used in 
                accordance with the purpose specified in subparagraph 
                (A), all right, title, and interest in and to the land, 
                including any improvements thereto, shall, at the 
                option of the Secretary, revert to and become the 
                property of the United States, and the United States 
                shall have the right of immediate entry onto such 
                parcel.
            (2) Additional terms and conditions.--The Secretary of the 
        Army may require in the instrument of release such additional 
        terms and conditions in connection with the release of terms 
        and conditions and retained interests under subsection (a) as 
        the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of 
        the United States.
    (d) Payment of Administrative Costs.--
            (1) Payment required.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Army may 
                require the State of Arkansas to cover costs to be 
                incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the 
                Secretary for costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry 
                out the release of terms and conditions and retained 
                interests under subsection (a), including survey costs, 
                costs related to environmental documentation, and other 
                administrative costs related to the release.
                    (B) Refund of amounts.--If amounts paid to the 
                Secretary by the State of Arkansas in advance under 
                subparagraph (A) exceed the costs actually incurred by 
                the Secretary to carry out the release, the Secretary 
                shall refund the excess amount to the State.
            (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
        paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the 
        Secretary to carry out the release of terms and conditions and 
        retained interests under subsection (a) shall be credited to 
        the fund or account that was used to cover the costs incurred 
        by the Secretary in carrying out the release. Amounts so 
        credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account 
        and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to 
        the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or 
        account.

SEC. 2812. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION OVER CERTAIN PARCELS 
              OF FEDERAL LAND IN ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA.

    (a) Transfer to the Secretary of the Army.--
            (1) Transfer.--Administrative jurisdiction over the parcel 
        of Federal land described in paragraph (2) is transferred from 
        the Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of the Army.
            (2) Description of land.--The parcel of Federal land 
        referred to in paragraph (1) is the approximately 16.09-acre 
        parcel of land in Arlington, Virginia, as depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Arlington National Cemetery, Memorial Ave-NPS 
        Parcel'' and dated February 11, 2019.
    (b) Transfer to the Secretary of the Interior.--
            (1) Transfer.--Administrative jurisdiction over the parcel 
        of Federal land described in paragraph (2) is transferred from 
        the Secretary of the Army to the Secretary of the Interior.
            (2) Description of land.--The parcel of Federal land 
        referred to in paragraph (1) is the approximately 1.04-acre 
        parcel of land in Arlington, Virginia, as depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Arlington National Cemetery-Chaffee NPS Land Swap'' 
        and dated October 31, 2018.
    (c) Land Surveys.--The exact acreage and legal description of a 
parcel of Federal land described in subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2) shall 
be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army and 
the Secretary of the Interior.
    (d) Authority to Correct Errors.--The Secretary of the Army and the 
Secretary of the Interior may correct any clerical or typographical 
error in a map described in subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2).
    (e) Terms and Conditions.--
            (1) No reimbursement or consideration.--A transfer by 
        subsection (a)(1) or (b)(1) shall be without reimbursement or 
        consideration.
            (2) Continued recreational access.--The use of a bicycle 
        trail or recreational access within a parcel of Federal land 
        described in subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2) in which the use or 
        access is authorized before the date of enactment of this Act 
        shall be allowed to continue after the transfer of the 
        applicable parcel of Federal land by subsection (a)(1) or 
        (b)(1).
            (3) Management of parcel transferred to secretary of the 
        army.--The parcel of Federal land transferred to the Secretary 
        of the Army by section (a)(1) shall be administered by the 
        Secretary of the Army--
                    (A) as part of Arlington National Cemetery; and
                    (B) in accordance with applicable law, including--
                            (i) regulations; and
                            (ii) section 2409 of title 38, United 
                        States Code.
            (4) Management of parcel transferred to secretary of the 
        interior.--The parcel of Federal land transferred to the 
        Secretary of the Interior by subsection (b)(1) shall be--
                    (A) included within the boundary of Arlington 
                House, The Robert E. Lee Memorial; and
                    (B) administered by the Secretary of the Interior--
                            (i) as part of the memorial referred to in 
                        subparagraph (A); and
                            (ii) in accordance with applicable law 
                        (including regulations).

SEC. 2813. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO LAND ACQUISITION IN 
              ARLINGTON COUNTY, VIRGINIA.

    Section 2829A of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2728) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``to remove'' and 
                                inserting ``if existing County 
                                utilities in the Southgate Road right 
                                of way are permitted to remain in 
                                accordance with a mutually agreed upon 
                                utility easement, to remove''
                                    (II) by striking ``through a 
                                realignment'' and inserting ``through--
                            ``(i) a realignment'';
                                    (III) in clause (i), as designated 
                                by subclause (I), by striking ``and'' 
                                at the end and inserting ``or''; and
                                    (IV) by adding at the end the 
                                following new clause:
                            ``(ii) the replacement of Southgate Road 
                        with a new access road to Joint Base Myer-
                        Henderson Hall; and''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``in accordance 
                        with this section and applicable Federal, 
                        Commonwealth, and County road right of way 
                        engineering standards and requirements.''; and
                    (B) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3) Consideration.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall expend 
                amounts up to fair market value consideration for the 
                interests in land acquired under this subsection as 
                such value is determined by an independent appraisal 
                process in accordance with the Uniform Relocation 
                Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act 
                of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.).
                    ``(B) In-kind consideration.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Any substitute or 
                        replacement facilities provided as in-kind 
                        consideration to replace existing Commonwealth 
                        or County roadways under this subsection 
                        shall--
                                    ``(I) be conveyed in fee simple 
                                absolute with no encumbrances or 
                                restrictions unless otherwise agreed by 
                                the Commonwealth or the County;
                                    ``(II) comply with applicable 
                                Commonwealth or County road right of 
                                way engineering standards and 
                                requirements; and
                                    ``(III) with respect to any 
                                substitute facility provided for the 
                                realignment of Columbia Pike--
                                            ``(aa) include a right-of-
                                        way profile (including 
                                        constructed roadway, sidewalks, 
                                        bicycle trails, multi-use 
                                        trails, buffers, etc.) of not 
                                        less than 92 feet in width; and
                                            ``(bb) ensure that, if a 
                                        vehicle or equipment tunnel 
                                        under Columbia Pike is 
                                        determined by the Secretary to 
                                        be necessary, there is a depth 
                                        of not less than 10 feet 
                                        between the top of the tunnel 
                                        and the surface of the roadway.
                            ``(ii) Difference in fair market value.--
                        The Commonwealth and the County shall be 
                        entitled to monetary compensation in an amount 
                        equal to the difference in the fair market 
                        value of any property acquired under this 
                        subsection and any property provided as in-kind 
                        consideration under this subparagraph for such 
                        acquired property, which shall be appraised--
                                    ``(I) as if such properties were to 
                                be made available as surplus; and
                                    ``(II) as determined by an 
                                independent appraisal process in 
                                accordance with the Uniform Relocation 
                                Assistance and Real Property 
                                Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 
                                U.S.C. 4601 et seq.).'';
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``appraisals acceptable 
        to the Secretary'' and inserting ``an independent appraisal 
        process in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance 
        and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 
        4601 et seq.)''; and
            (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``, in consultation with 
        the Commonwealth and the County where practicable'' and 
        inserting ``the Commonwealth, and the County''.

SEC. 2814. WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE LAND ENHANCEMENTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``White 
        Sands National Park Proposed Boundary Revision & Transfer of 
        Lands Between National Park Service & Department of the Army'', 
        numbered 142/136,271, and dated February 14, 2017.
            (2) Military munitions.--The term ``military munitions'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 101(e) of title 10, 
        United States Code.
            (3) Missile range.--The term ``missile range'' means the 
        White Sands Missile Range, New Mexico, administered by the 
        Secretary of the Army.
            (4) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the White Sands 
        National Monument, New Mexico, established by Presidential 
        Proclamation No. 2025 (54 U.S.C. 320301 note), dated January 
        18, 1933, and administered by the Secretary.
            (5) Munitions debris.--The term ``munitions debris'' has 
        the meaning given the term in volume 8 of the Department of 
        Defense Manual Number 6055.09-M entitled ``DoD Ammunitions and 
        Explosives Safety Standards'' and dated February 29, 2008 (as 
        in effect on the date of enactment of this Act).
            (6) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the White Sands National 
        Park established by subsection (b)(2)(A).
            (7) Public land order.--The term ``Public Land Order'' 
        means Public Land Order 833, dated May 21, 1952 (17 Fed. Reg. 
        4822).
            (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (9) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New 
        Mexico.
    (b) White Sands National Park.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) White Sands National Monument was established 
                on January 18, 1933, by President Herbert Hoover under 
                chapter 3203 of title 54, United States Code (commonly 
                known as the ``Antiquities Act of 1906'');
                    (B) President Hoover proclaimed that the Monument 
                was established ``for the preservation of the white 
                sands and additional features of scenic, scientific, 
                and educational interest'';
                    (C) the Monument was expanded by Presidents 
                Roosevelt, Eisenhower, Carter, and Clinton in 1934, 
                1942, 1953, 1978, and 1996, respectively;
                    (D) the Monument contains a substantially more 
                diverse set of nationally significant historical, 
                archaeological, scientific, and natural resources than 
                were known of at the time the Monument was established, 
                including a number of recent discoveries;
                    (E) the Monument is recognized as a major unit of 
                the National Park System with extraordinary values 
                enjoyed by more visitors each year since 1995 than any 
                other unit in the State;
                    (F) the Monument contributes significantly to the 
                local economy by attracting tourists; and
                    (G) designation of the Monument as a national park 
                would increase public recognition of the diverse array 
                of nationally significant resources at the Monument and 
                visitation to the unit.
            (2) Establishment of white sands national park.--
                    (A) Establishment.--To protect, preserve, and 
                restore its scenic, scientific, educational, natural, 
                geological, historical, cultural, archaeological, 
                paleontological, hydrological, fish, wildlife, and 
                recreational values and to enhance visitor experiences, 
                there is established in the State the White Sands 
                National Park as a unit of the National Park System.
                    (B) Abolishment of white sands national monument.--
                            (i) Abolishment.--Due to the establishment 
                        of the Park, the Monument is abolished.
                            (ii) Incorporation.--The land and interests 
                        in land that comprise the Monument are 
                        incorporated in, and shall be considered to be 
                        part of, the Park.
                    (C) References.--Any reference in a law, map, 
                regulation, document, paper, or other record of the 
                United States to the ``White Sands National Monument'' 
                shall be considered to be a reference to the ``White 
                Sands National Park''.
                    (D) Availability of funds.--Any funds available for 
                the Monument shall be available for the Park.
                    (E) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer 
                the Park in accordance with--
                            (i) this subsection; and
                            (ii) the laws generally applicable to units 
                        of the National Park System, including section 
                        100101(a), chapter 1003, sections 100751(a), 
                        100752, 100753, and 102101, and chapter 3201 of 
                        title 54, United States Code.
                    (F) World heritage list nomination.--
                            (i) County concurrence.--The Secretary 
                        shall not submit a nomination for the Park to 
                        be included on the World Heritage List of the 
                        United Nations Educational, Scientific and 
                        Cultural Organization unless each county in 
                        which the Park is located concurs in the 
                        nomination.
                            (ii) Army notification.--Before submitting 
                        a nomination for the Park to be included on the 
                        World Heritage List of the United Nations 
                        Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
                        Organization, the Secretary shall notify the 
                        Secretary of the Army of the intent of the 
                        Secretary to nominate the Park.
                    (G) Effect.--Nothing in this paragraph affects--
                            (i) valid existing rights (including water 
                        rights);
                            (ii) permits or contracts issued by the 
                        Monument;
                            (iii) existing agreements, including 
                        agreements with the Department of Defense;
                            (iv) the jurisdiction of the Department of 
                        Defense regarding the restricted airspace above 
                        the Park; or
                            (v) the airshed classification of the Park 
                        under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et 
                        seq.).
    (c) Modification of Boundaries of White Sands National Park and 
White Sands Missile Range.--
            (1) Transfers of administrative jurisdiction.--
                    (A) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction to the 
                secretary.--
                            (i) In general.--Administrative 
                        jurisdiction over the land described in clause 
                        (ii) is transferred from the Secretary of the 
                        Army to the Secretary.
                            (ii) Description of land.--The land 
                        referred to in clause (i) is--
                                    (I) the approximately 2,826 acres 
                                of land identified as ``To NPS, lands 
                                inside current boundary'' on the Map; 
                                and
                                    (II) the approximately 5,766 acres 
                                of land identified as ``To NPS, new 
                                additions'' on the Map.
                    (B) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction to the 
                secretary of the army.--
                            (i) In general.--Administrative 
                        jurisdiction over the land described in clause 
                        (ii) is transferred from the Secretary to the 
                        Secretary of the Army.
                            (ii) Description of land.--The land 
                        referred to in clause (i) is the approximately 
                        3,737 acres of land identified as ``To DOA'' on 
                        the Map.
            (2) Boundary modifications.--
                    (A) Park.--
                            (i) In general.--The boundary of the Park 
                        is revised to reflect the boundary depicted on 
                        the Map.
                            (ii) Map.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Secretary, in 
                                coordination with the Secretary of the 
                                Army, shall prepare and keep on file 
                                for public inspection in the 
                                appropriate office of the Secretary a 
                                map and a legal description of the 
                                revised boundary of the Park.
                                    (II) Effect.--The map and legal 
                                description under subclause (I) shall 
                                have the same force and effect as if 
                                included in this section, except that 
                                the Secretary may correct clerical and 
                                typographical errors in the map and 
                                legal description.
                            (iii) Boundary survey.--As soon as 
                        practicable after the date of the establishment 
                        of the Park and subject to the availability of 
                        funds, the Secretary shall complete an official 
                        boundary survey of the Park.
                    (B) Missile range.--
                            (i) In general.--The boundary of the 
                        missile range and the Public Land Order are 
                        modified to exclude the land transferred to the 
                        Secretary under paragraph (1)(A) and to include 
                        the land transferred to the Secretary of the 
                        Army under paragraph (1)(B).
                            (ii) Map.--The Secretary shall prepare a 
                        map and legal description depicting the revised 
                        boundary of the missile range.
                    (C) Conforming amendment.--Section 2854 of Public 
                Law 104-201 (54 U.S.C. 320301 note) is repealed.
            (3) Administration.--
                    (A) Park.--The Secretary shall administer the land 
                transferred under paragraph (1)(A) in accordance with 
                laws (including regulations) applicable to the Park.
                    (B) Missile range.--Subject to subparagraph (C), 
                the Secretary of the Army shall administer the land 
                transferred to the Secretary of the Army under 
                paragraph (1)(B) as part of the missile range.
                    (C) Infrastructure; resource management.--
                            (i) Range road 7.--
                                    (I) Infrastructure management.--To 
                                the maximum extent practicable, in 
                                planning, constructing, and managing 
                                infrastructure on the land described in 
                                subclause (III), the Secretary of the 
                                Army shall apply low-impact development 
                                techniques and strategies to prevent 
                                impacts within the missile range and 
                                the Park from stormwater runoff from 
                                the land described in that subclause.
                                    (II) Resource management.--The 
                                Secretary of the Army shall--
                                            (aa) manage the land 
                                        described in subclause (III) in 
                                        a manner consistent with the 
                                        protection of natural and 
                                        cultural resources within the 
                                        missile range and the Park and 
                                        in accordance with section 
                                        101(a)(1)(B) of the Sikes Act 
                                        (16 U.S.C. 670a(a)(1)(B)), 
                                        division A of subtitle III of 
                                        title 54, United States Code, 
                                        and the Native American Graves 
                                        Protection and Repatriation Act 
                                        (25 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.); and
                                            (bb) include the land 
                                        described in subclause (III) in 
                                        the integrated natural and 
                                        cultural resource management 
                                        plan for the missile range.
                                    (III) Description of land.--The 
                                land referred to in subclauses (I) and 
                                (II) is the land that is transferred to 
                                the administrative jurisdiction of the 
                                Secretary of the Army under paragraph 
                                (1)(B) and located in the area east of 
                                Range Road 7 in--
                                            (aa) T. 17 S., R. 5 E., 
                                        sec. 31;
                                            (bb) T. 18 S., R. 5 E.; and
                                            (cc) T. 19 S., R. 5 E., 
                                        sec. 5.
                            (ii) Fence.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Secretary of 
                                the Army shall continue to allow the 
                                Secretary to maintain the fence shown 
                                on the Map until such time as the 
                                Secretary determines that the fence is 
                                unnecessary for the management of the 
                                Park.
                                    (II) Removal.--If the Secretary 
                                determines that the fence is 
                                unnecessary for the management of the 
                                Park under subclause (I), the Secretary 
                                shall promptly remove the fence at the 
                                expense of the Department of the 
                                Interior.
                    (D) Research.--The Secretary of the Army and the 
                Secretary may enter into an agreement to allow the 
                Secretary to conduct certain research in the area 
                identified as ``Cooperative Use Research Area'' on the 
                Map.
                    (E) Military munitions and munitions debris.--
                            (i) Response action.--With respect to any 
                        Federal liability, the Secretary of the Army 
                        shall remain responsible for any response 
                        action addressing military munitions or 
                        munitions debris on the land transferred under 
                        paragraph (1)(A) to the same extent as on the 
                        day before the date of enactment of this Act.
                            (ii) Investigation of military munitions 
                        and munitions debris.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Secretary may 
                                request that the Secretary of the Army 
                                conduct 1 or more investigations of 
                                military munitions or munitions debris 
                                on any land transferred under paragraph 
                                (1)(A).
                                    (II) Access.--The Secretary shall 
                                give access to the Secretary of the 
                                Army to the land covered by a request 
                                under subclause (I) for the purposes of 
                                conducting the 1 or more investigations 
                                under that subclause.
                                    (III) Limitation.--An investigation 
                                conducted under this clause shall be 
                                subject to available appropriations.
                            (iii) Applicable law.--Any activities 
                        undertaken under this subparagraph shall be 
                        carried out in accordance with--
                                    (I) the Comprehensive Environmental 
                                Response, Compensation, and Liability 
                                Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.);
                                    (II) the purposes for which the 
                                Park was established; and
                                    (III) any other applicable law.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 2821. EQUAL TREATMENT OF INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND 
              CREDIT UNIONS OPERATING ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.

    Section 2667 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(l) Treatment of Insured Depository Institutions.--(1) Each 
covered insured depository institution operating on a military 
installation within the continental United States may be allotted space 
or leased land on the military installation without charge for rent or 
services in the same manner as a credit union organized under State law 
or a Federal credit union under section 124 of the Federal Credit Union 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1770) if space is available.
    ``(2) Each covered insured depository institution, credit union 
organized under State law, and Federal credit union operating on a 
military installation within the continental United States shall be 
treated equally with respect to policies of the Department of Defense 
governing the financial terms of leases, logistical support, services, 
and utilities.
    ``(3) The Secretary concerned shall not be required to provide no-
cost office space or a no-cost land lease to any covered insured 
depository institution, credit union organized under State law, or 
Federal credit union.
    ``(4) In this subsection:
            ``(A) The term `covered insured depository institution' 
        means an insured depository institution that meets the 
        requirements applicable to a credit union organized under State 
        law or a Federal credit union under section 124 of the Federal 
        Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1770). The depositors of an insured 
        depository institution shall be considered members for purposes 
        of the application of this subparagraph to that section.
            ``(B) The term `Federal credit union' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1752).
            ``(C) The term `insured depository institution' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit 
        Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).''.

SEC. 2822. EXPANSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY FOR ACCEPTANCE AND USE OF 
              CONTRIBUTIONS FOR CERTAIN CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, AND 
              REPAIR PROJECTS MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL TO THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE AND KUWAIT MILITARY FORCES.

    (a) Expansion.--Section 2804 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 2350j note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``government of Kuwait'' and 
                inserting ``Government of Kuwait and the Government of 
                the Republic of Korea''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Kuwait military forces'' and 
                inserting ``the military forces of the applicable 
                contributing country'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by inserting ``for contributions 
        from the contributing country'' after ``Secretary of Defense'';
            (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``government of Kuwait'' 
        and inserting ``government of the contributing country''; and
            (4) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``government of 
                Kuwait'' and inserting ``government of the contributing 
                country''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``Kuwait military forces'' and inserting 
                        ``military forces of the contributing 
                        country''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                        ``Kuwait military forces'' and inserting ``the 
                        military forces of the contributing country''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The heading of such section is amended 
to read as follows:

``SEC. 2804. TEMPORARY AUTHORITY FOR ACCEPTANCE AND USE OF 
              CONTRIBUTIONS FOR CERTAIN CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, AND 
              REPAIR PROJECTS MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL TO THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE AND THE MILITARY FORCES OF KUWAIT AND THE 
              REPUBLIC OF KOREA.''.

SEC. 2823. DESIGNATION OF SUMPTER SMITH JOINT NATIONAL GUARD BASE.

    (a) Designation.--The Sumpter Smith Air National Guard Base in 
Birmingham, Alabama, shall after the date of the enactment of this Act 
be known and designated as the ``Sumpter Smith Joint National Guard 
Base''.
    (b) Reference.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
installation referred to in subsection (a) shall be considered to be a 
reference to the Sumpter Smith Joint National Guard Base.

SEC. 2824. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO PRIVATIZE TEMPORARY LODGING 
              ON INSTALLATIONS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    No funds may be authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Defense for fiscal year 2020 to privatize temporary lodging on 
installations of the Department.

SEC. 2825. PILOT PROGRAM TO EXTEND SERVICE LIFE OF ROADS AND RUNWAYS 
              UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF THE SECRETARIES OF THE MILITARY 
              DEPARTMENTS.

    (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--Each Secretary of a military 
department may carry out a pilot program to design, build, and test 
technologies and innovative pavement materials in order to extend the 
service life of roads and runways under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary concerned.
    (b) Scope.--A pilot program under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
            (1) The design, testing, and assembly of technologies and 
        systems suitable for pavement applications.
            (2) Research, development, and testing of new pavement 
        materials for use in different geographic areas in the United 
        States.
            (3) The design and procurement of platforms and equipment 
        to test the performance, cost, feasibility, and effectiveness 
        of the technologies, systems, and materials described in 
        paragraphs (1) and (2).
    (c) Award of Contracts or Grants.--
            (1) In general.--Each Secretary of a military department 
        may carry out a pilot program under subsection (a) through the 
        award of contracts or grants for the designing, building, or 
        testing of technologies or innovative pavement materials under 
        the pilot program.
            (2) Merit-based selection.--Any award of a contract or 
        grant under a pilot program under subsection (a) shall be made 
        using merit-based selection procedures.
    (d) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the 
        commencement of a pilot program under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary of the military department concerned shall submit to 
        the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot 
        program.
            (2) Contents.--Each report under paragraph (1) with respect 
        to a pilot program shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the effectiveness of 
                activities under the pilot program in improving the 
                service life of roads and runways under the 
                jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned.
                    (B) An analysis of the potential lifetime cost 
                savings and reduction in energy demands associated with 
                the extended service life of such roads and runways.
    (e) Termination of Authority.--Each pilot program under subsection 
(a) shall terminate on September 30, 2024.

   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2901. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction projects for the installations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                         Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cuba..........................................  Guantanamo Bay.................................      $33,800,000
Worldwide Unspecified.........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations................      $42,200,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2902. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction projects for the installations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                         Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Spain.........................................  Rota...........................................      $69,570,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2903. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry 
out the military construction projects for the installations outside 
the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                         Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Iceland.......................................  Keflavik.......................................      $57,000,000
Spain.........................................  Moron..........................................       $8,500,000
Worldwide Unspecified.........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations................     $175,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2904. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction projects for the installations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                         Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.......................................  Gemersheim.....................................      $46,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2905. DISASTER RECOVERY PROJECTS.

    (a) Navy.--The Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and 
carry out military construction projects inside the United States 
relating to disaster recovery for the locations, and in the amounts, 
set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
North Carolina................................  Camp Lejeune...................................     $861,587,000
                                                Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point..........      $64,561,000
Unspecified...................................  Zulu...........................................      $50,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Air Force.--The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real 
property and carry out military construction projects inside the United 
States relating to disaster recovery for the locations, and in the 
amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                       Air Force: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Florida.......................................  Tyndall Air Force Base.........................   $1,278,700,000
Unspecified...................................  Zulu...........................................     $247,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Army National Guard.--The Secretary of the Army may acquire 
real property and carry out military construction projects inside the 
United States relating to disaster recovery for the locations, and in 
the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                  Army National Guard: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Florida.......................................  Panama City....................................      $25,000,000
North Carolina................................  MTA Fort Fisher................................      $25,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (d) Defense-wide.--The Secretary of Defense may acquire real 
property and carry out military construction projects inside the United 
States relating to disaster recovery for the locations, and in the 
amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                     Defense-wide: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
North Carolina................................  Camp Lejeune--Defense Health Agency............      $45,313,000
                                                Camp Lejeune--SOCOM............................      $30,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2906. REPLENISHMENT OF CERTAIN MILITARY CONSTRUCTIONS FUNDS.

    (a) In General.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2020 by section 2905 and available as specified in the 
funding table in section 4602, $3,600,000,000 shall be available for 
replenishment of funds that were authorized to be appropriated by 
military construction authorization Acts for fiscal years before fiscal 
year 2020 for military construction projects authorized by such Acts, 
but were used instead for military construction projects authorized by 
section 2808 of title 10, United States Code, in connection with the 
national emergency along the southern land border of the United States 
declared in 2019 pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 
1601 et seq.).
    (b) Replenishment by Transfer.--
            (1) In general.--Any amounts available under subsection (a) 
        that are used for replenishment of funds as described in that 
        subsection shall be transferred to the account that was the 
        source of such funds.
            (2) Inapplicability toward transfer limitations.--Any 
        transfer of amounts under this subsection shall not count 
        toward any limitation on transfer of Department of Defense 
        funds in section 1001 or 1512 or any other limitation on 
        transfer of Department of funds in law.
            (3) Sunset of authority.--The authority to make transfers 
        under this subsection shall terminate on September 30, 2020.
    (c) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Amounts transferred under subsection (b) 
        for replenishment of funds as described in subsection (a) may 
        be used only for military construction projects for which such 
        funds were originally authorized in a military construction 
        authorization Act described in subsection (a).
            (2) No increase in authorized amount of projects.--The 
        total amount of funds available for a military construction 
        project described in paragraph (1) may not exceed the current 
        amount authorized for such project by applicable military 
        construction authorization Acts (including this Act). A 
        replenishment of funds under this section for a military 
        construction project shall not operate to increase the 
        authorized amount of the project or the amount authorized to be 
        available for the project.

SEC. 2907. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2019, for the military construction 
projects outside the United States authorized by this title as 
specified in the funding table in section 4602.

            TITLE XXX--MILITARY HOUSING PRIVATIZATION REFORM

SEC. 3001. DEFINITIONS.

    (a) In General.--In this title:
            (1) Landlord.--The term ``landlord'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 2871 of title 10, United States Code, as 
        amended by subsection (b).
            (2) Privatized military housing.--The term ``privatized 
        military housing'' means housing provided under subchapter IV 
        of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Title 10.--Section 2871 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs 
        (9) and (11), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(7) The term `incentive fees' means any amounts payable 
        to a landlord for meeting or exceeding performance metrics as 
        specified in a contract with the Department of Defense.
            ``(8) The term `landlord' means an eligible entity or 
        lessor who owns, manages, or is otherwise responsible for a 
        housing unit under this subchapter.''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (9), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1) of this subsection, the following new paragraph:
            ``(10) The term `tenant' means a member of the armed 
        forces, including a reserve component thereof, or a family 
        member of a member of the armed forces who resides at a housing 
        unit under this subchapter.''.

                Subtitle A--Accountability and Oversight

SEC. 3011. TENANT BILL OF RIGHTS FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2887. Tenant Bill of Rights
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
with the Secretary of each military department, shall develop a 
document known as the `Tenant Bill of Rights' for tenants of housing 
units under this subchapter.
    ``(2) At a minimum, the document developed under paragraph (1) 
shall contain the right of each tenant as follows:
            ``(A) To reside in a home and community that meets health 
        and environmental standards established by the Secretary of 
        Defense.
            ``(B) To reside in a home that has working fixtures, 
        appliances, and utilities and reside in a community with well-
        maintained common areas and amenity spaces.
            ``(C) To report inadequate housing standards or deficits in 
        habitability to the landlord, chain of command, and housing 
        management office without fear of reprisal.
            ``(D) With respect to the housing management office of the 
        installation of the Department at which the housing unit is 
        located--
                    ``(i) to use such office as an advocate relating to 
                such housing unit; and
                    ``(ii) to receive advice and support from such 
                office relating to such housing unit.
            ``(E) To receive property management services provided by a 
        landlord that meet or exceed industry standards and that are 
        performed by professionally trained, responsive, and courteous 
        customer service and maintenance staff.
            ``(F) To have multiple, convenient methods to communicate 
        directly with the landlord and maintenance staff, and to 
        receive honest, straightforward, and responsive communications 
        at all times.
            ``(G) With respect to repairs--
                    ``(i) to prompt and professional repairs;
                    ``(ii) to be informed of the required time frame 
                for those repairs when a maintenance request is 
                submitted; and
                    ``(iii) to prompt relocation into suitable lodging 
                or other housing at no cost to the tenant until the 
                repairs are completed or relocation to an alternative 
                residence on the installation or within the surrounding 
                local community at no cost to the tenant.
            ``(H) To enter into a dispute resolution process under 
        section 2891 of this title concerning disputes over repairs, 
        damage claims, and rental payments to be resolved by a neutral 
        decision maker, with any decision in favor of the tenant to 
        include a reduction in rent owed to the landlord to be paid or 
        credited to the tenant.
            ``(I) To withhold basic allowance for housing (including 
        for any dependents of the tenant in the tenant's household) 
        under section 403 of title 37, or any pay of the tenant subject 
        to allotment described in section 2882(c) of this title, if the 
        tenant is engaged in a dispute under subparagraph (H) until a 
        decision in the matter is made.
            ``(J) To be fully briefed by the landlord on all rights and 
        responsibilities associated with tenancy prior to signing a 
        lease and receive a 30-day followup to review these 
        responsibilities.
            ``(K) To have sufficient time and opportunity to prepare 
        and be present for move-in and move-out inspections, including 
        an opportunity to obtain necessary paperwork.
            ``(L) To have reasonable, advance notice of any entrance by 
        a landlord into the housing unit, except in the case of an 
        emergency.
            ``(M) To have clearly defined rental terms in the lease 
        agreement.
            ``(N) To not pay non-refundable fees or have application of 
        rent credits arbitrarily held.
            ``(O) To have universal procedures for housing under this 
        subchapter that are the same for all installations of the 
        Department.
            ``(P) To file claims against a landlord.
    ``(3) The document developed under paragraph (1) shall contain the 
responsibilities of each tenant as follows:
            ``(A) To report maintenance or quality of life issues to 
        the landlord in a timely manner.
            ``(B) To maintain standard upkeep of the housing unit as 
        recommended by the housing management office.
    ``(b) Distribution.--The Secretary shall ensure that the Tenant 
Bill of Rights under this section is attached to each lease agreement 
for housing under this subchapter.
    ``(c) Report and Publication.--(1) Beginning in fiscal year 2021, 
and biennially thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
with the Secretary of each military department, shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees, as part of the annual budget 
submission of the President for that year under section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, the Tenant Bill of Rights under this 
section.
    ``(2) Upon submitting the Tenant Bill of Rights to the 
congressional defense committees under paragraph (1), the Secretary of 
Defense shall publish the Tenant Bill of Rights on a publicly available 
Internet website of the Department of Defense.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2886 the following new item:

``2887. Tenant Bill of Rights.''.
    (c) Military Department Plans.--Not later than February 1, 2020, 
the Secretary of each military department shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a plan for the implementation by that 
military department of section 2887 of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by subsection (a).

SEC. 3012. DESIGNATION OF CHIEF HOUSING OFFICER FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
              HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2872a the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2872b. Chief Housing Officer
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall designate, 
from among officials of the Department of Defense who are appointed by 
the President with the advice and consent of the Senate, a Chief 
Housing Officer who shall oversee housing provided under this 
subchapter.
    ``(2) The official designated under paragraph (1) may have duties 
in addition to the duties of the Chief Housing Officer under this 
section.
    ``(b) Duties.--The Chief Housing Officer shall oversee all aspects 
of the provision of housing under this subchapter, including by 
carrying out the following:
            ``(1) Creation and standardization of policies and 
        processes.
            ``(2) Oversight of the administration of lease agreements 
        by the Secretary of each military department.
            ``(3) Audits of the provision of housing under this 
        subchapter, including audits of lease agreements and other 
        contracts, maintenance work orders, and incentive fee payments 
        and general audits in the conduct of oversight.
    ``(c) Office and Staff.--(1) The Chief Housing Officer shall 
establish and maintain an office staffed by military personnel and 
employees of the Department of Defense whose skills and capabilities 
will assist the Chief Housing Officer in the exercise of the duties of 
the Chief Housing Officer under subsection (b). Such office shall be 
known as the `Office of the Chief Housing Officer'.
    ``(2) Personnel and employees staffed under paragraph (1) shall 
include legal counsel, engineers, and auditors.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2872a the following new item:

``2872b. Chief Housing Officer.''.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on--
            (1) the designation of a Chief Housing Officer under 
        section 2872b of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) the organizational structure, funding, human resources, 
        and other relevant requirements of the Office of the Chief 
        Housing Officer under such section.

SEC. 3013. COMMAND OVERSIGHT OF MILITARY PRIVATIZED HOUSING AS ELEMENT 
              OF PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS.

    (a) Evaluations in General.--Each Secretary of a military 
department shall ensure that the performance evaluations of any 
individual described in subsection (b) under the jurisdiction of such 
Secretary indicates the extent to which such individual has or has not 
exercised effective oversight and leadership in the following:
            (1) Improving conditions of privatized housing under the 
        military privatized housing initiative under subchapter IV of 
        chapter 169, United States Code.
            (2) Addressing concerns with respect to such housing of 
        members of the Armed Forces and their families who reside in 
        such housing on an installation of the military department 
        concerned.
    (b) Covered Individuals.--The individuals described in this 
subsection are as follows:
            (1) The commander of an installation of a military 
        department at which on-installation housing is managed by a 
        landlord under the military privatized housing initiative 
        referred to in subsection (a)(1).
            (2) Each officer or senior enlisted member of the Armed 
        Forces at an installation described in paragraph (1) whose 
        duties include facilities or housing management at such 
        installation.
            (3) Any other officer or enlisted member of the Armed 
        Forces (whether or not at an installation described in 
        paragraph (1)) as specified by the Secretary of the military 
        department concerned for purposes of this section.

SEC. 3014. CONSIDERATION OF HISTORY OF LANDLORD IN CONTRACT RENEWAL 
              PROCESS FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2874 the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2874a. Consideration of history of landlord in contract renewal 
              process
    ``(a) In General.--In deciding whether to enter into or renew a 
contract with a landlord under this subchapter, the Secretary of 
Defense shall develop a standard process for determining past 
performance for purposes of informing future decisions regarding the 
award of such a contract.
    ``(b) Elements of Process.--The process developed under subsection 
(a) shall include, at a minimum, consideration of the following:
            ``(1) Any history of the landlord of providing substandard 
        housing.
            ``(2) The recommendation of the commander of the 
        installation at which the housing is to be located under the 
        contract.
            ``(3) The recommendation of the commander of any 
        installation at which the landlord has provided housing under 
        this subchapter.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2874 the following new item:

``2874a. Consideration of history of landlord in contract renewal 
                            process.''.

SEC. 3015. TREATMENT OF BREACH OF CONTRACT FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
              HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2874a the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2874b. Treatment of breach of contract
    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Defense--
            ``(1) shall withhold amounts to be paid under a contract 
        under this subchapter if the other party to the contract is 
        found to have engaged in a material breach of the contract;
            ``(2) shall rescind a contract under this subchapter if the 
        other party to the contract, based on credible evidence, fails 
        to cure such breach within 90 days; and
            ``(3) shall not permit the other party to a contract 
        rescinded under paragraph (2) to enter into new contracts with 
        the Secretary under this subchapter or undertake expansions 
        under existing contracts with the Secretary under this 
        subchapter.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2874a the following new item:

``2874b. Treatment of breach of contract.''.

SEC. 3016. UNIFORM CODE OF BASIC STANDARDS FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
              HOUSING AND PLAN TO CONDUCT INSPECTIONS AND ASSESSMENTS.

    (a) Uniform Code.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
uniform code of basic housing standards for safety, comfort, and 
habitability for privatized military housing.
    (b) Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a plan of the Department of Defense to contract with 
        home inspectors described in subsection (c) to conduct a 
        thorough inspection and assessment of the structural integrity 
        and habitability of each privatized military housing unit.
            (2) Inclusion of uniform code.--The plan submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall include the uniform code established under 
        subsection (a).
            (3) Implementation.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2021, 
                the Secretary of each military department shall conduct 
                inspections and assessments of privatized military 
                housing units under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
                concerned pursuant to the plan submitted under 
                paragraph (1) to identify issues and ensure compliance 
                with applicable housing codes, including the uniform 
                code established under subsection (a).
                    (B) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the 
                Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
                defense committees a report on the findings of the 
                inspections and assessments conducted under 
                subparagraph (A).
    (c) Home Inspectors Described.--A home inspector described in this 
subsection is a home inspector that is not affiliated with--
            (1) the Federal Government; or
            (2) an individual or entity who owns or manages a 
        privatized military housing unit.

SEC. 3017. REPEAL OF SUPPLEMENTAL PAYMENTS TO LESSORS AND REQUIREMENT 
              FOR USE OF FUNDS IN CONNECTION WITH THE MILITARY HOUSING 
              PRIVATIZATION INITIATIVE.

    (a) Repeal.--
            (1) In general.--Section 606 of the John S. McCain National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
        232; 132 Stat. 1795; 10 U.S.C. 2871 note) is amended by 
        striking subsection (a).
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
        shall apply with respect to months beginning on or after that 
        date.
    (b) Use of Funds in Connection With MHPI.--
            (1) In general.--Each month beginning with the first month 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, each Secretary of 
        a military department shall do the following:
                    (A) Payments to lessors.--Use funds, in an amount 
                calculated pursuant to paragraph (2)(A), for payments 
                to lessors of covered housing in the manner provided by 
                subsection (a) of section 606 of the John S. McCain 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
                2019, as in effect on the day before the date of the 
                enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Improvement of oversight and management of 
                agreements.--Use funds, in an amount calculated 
                pursuant to paragraph (2)(B), for improvements of the 
                oversight and management of agreements for MHPI housing 
                under the jurisdiction of such Secretary.
            (2) Monthly amounts.--
                    (A) For payments to lessors.--The amount calculated 
                for a military department for a month pursuant to this 
                subparagraph is 2 percent of the aggregate of the 
                amounts calculated under section 403(b)(3)(A)(i) of 
                title 37, United States Code, for covered housing under 
                the jurisdiction of such department for such month.
                    (B) For improvement of oversight and management of 
                agreements.--The amount calculated for a military 
                department for a month pursuant to this subparagraph is 
                3 percent of the aggregate of the amounts calculated 
                under section 403(b)(3)(A)(i) of title 37, United 
                States Code, for covered housing under the jurisdiction 
                of such department for such month.
            (3) Improvements.--Improvements under paragraph (1)(B) to 
        the oversight and management of agreements described in that 
        paragraph may include the following:
                    (A) Assignment of additional civilian personnel to 
                perform oversight and management functions with respect 
                to such agreements.
                    (B) Investment in technological mechanisms to 
                assist the military department concerned in overseeing 
                the maintenance and upkeep of MHPI housing.
                    (C) Such additional investment in the oversight and 
                management of such agreements, and in overseeing the 
                maintenance and upkeep of MHPI housing, as the 
                Secretary of the military department concerned 
                considers appropriate.
            (4) Additional payments to lessors.--In any month described 
        in paragraph (1), the Secretary of a military department may 
        use amounts, in addition to amounts calculated pursuant to 
        paragraph (2)(A), for payments to lessors as described in 
        paragraph (1)(A) if such Secretary provides advance notice of 
        such payments to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
        and the House of Representatives.
            (5) Definitions.--In this subsection, the terms ``covered 
        housing'' and ``MHPI housing'' have the meanings given such 
        terms in section 606(d) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019.

SEC. 3018. STANDARD FOR COMMON CREDENTIALS FOR HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
              INSPECTORS OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
that contains a standard for common credentials to be used throughout 
the Department of Defense for all inspectors of health and 
environmental hazards at privatized military housing units, including 
inspectors contracted by the Department.
    (b) Inclusion of Categories for Specific Environmental Hazards.--
The standard submitted under subsection (a) shall include categories 
for specific environmental hazards such as lead, mold, and radon.

SEC. 3019. IMPROVEMENT OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) Complaint Database and Financial Transparency.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new sections:
``Sec. 2888. Complaint database
    ``(a) Database Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
a database that is available to the public of complaints relating to 
housing units under this subchapter.
    ``(b) Filing of Complaints.--The Secretary shall ensure that a 
tenant of a housing unit under this subchapter may file a complaint 
relating to such housing unit for inclusion in the database under 
subsection (a).
    ``(c) Response by Landlord.--(1) The Secretary shall include in any 
contract with a landlord responsible for a housing unit under this 
subchapter a requirement that the landlord respond to any complaints 
included in the database under subsection (a) that relate to the 
housing unit.
    ``(2) Any response under paragraph (1) shall be included in the 
database under subsection (a).
``Sec. 2889. Financial transparency
    ``(a) Publication of Details of Contracts.--(1) Not less frequently 
than annually, the Secretary Defense shall publish in the Federal 
Register the financial details of each contract for the management of 
housing units under this subchapter.
    ``(2) The financial details published under paragraph (1) shall 
include the following:
            ``(A) Base management fees for managing the housing units.
            ``(B) Incentive fees relating to the housing units, 
        including details on the following:
                    ``(i) Metrics upon which such incentive fees are 
                paid.
                    ``(ii) Whether incentive fees were paid in full or 
                withheld in part or in full during the year covered by 
                the publication, and if so, why.
            ``(C) Asset management fees relating to the housing units.
            ``(D) Preferred return fees relating to the housing units.
            ``(E) Any deferred fees or other fees relating to the 
        housing units.
            ``(F) Residual cash flow distributions relating to the 
        housing units.
    ``(b) Annual Financial Statements.--(1) The Secretary of Defense 
shall require that each landlord submit to the Secretary, not less 
frequently than annually, financial statements equivalent to a 10-K (or 
successor form) for--
            ``(A) the landlord; and
            ``(B) each contract entered into between the landlord and 
        the Department of Defense under this subchapter.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such subchapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 2887 the following new items:

``2888. Complaint database.
``2889. Financial transparency.''.
    (b) Annual Reports on Privatized Military Housing and Denied 
Requests to Withhold Payments.--Section 2884 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(d) Annual Report on Housing.--(1) Not less frequently than 
annually, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees and publish on a publicly available website of the 
Department of Defense a report on housing units under this subchapter, 
disaggregated by military installation.
    ``(2) Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include the 
following:
            ``(A) An assessment of the condition of housing units under 
        this subchapter based on the average age of those units and the 
        estimated time until recapitalization.
            ``(B) An analysis of complaints of tenants of such housing 
        units.
            ``(C) An assessment of maintenance response times and 
        completion of maintenance requests relating to such housing 
        units.
            ``(D) An assessment of dispute resolution relating to such 
        housing units.
            ``(E) An assessment of overall customer service for tenants 
        of such housing units.
            ``(F) A description of the results of any no-notice housing 
        inspections conducted for such housing units.
            ``(G) The results of any resident surveys conducted with 
        respect to such housing units.
    ``(e) Report on Denied Requests to Withhold Payments.--Not less 
frequently than annually, the commander of each military installation 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on all 
requests that were made by members of the armed forces who are tenants 
of housing units under this subchapter to withhold from the landlord of 
such unit any basic allowance for housing payable to the member 
(including for any dependents of the member in the member's household) 
under section 403 of title 37, or any other allotment of pay under 
section 2882(c) of this title, and that were denied during the year 
covered by the report.''.

SEC. 3020. ACCESS TO MAINTENANCE WORK ORDER SYSTEM OF LANDLORDS OF 
              PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2890. Access to maintenance work order system
    ``The Secretary of Defense shall require each landlord that 
provides housing under this subchapter at an installation of the 
Department of Defense to provide access to the maintenance work order 
system of such landlord with respect to such housing to the following:
            ``(1) Personnel of the housing management office at such 
        installation.
            ``(2) Personnel of the installation and engineer command or 
        center of the military department concerned.
            ``(3) Such other personnel of the Department of Defense as 
        the Secretary determines necessary.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2889 the following new item:

``2890. Access to maintenance work order system.''.

SEC. 3021. ACCESS BY TENANTS OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING TO WORK 
              ORDER SYSTEM OF LANDLORD.

    The Secretary of Defense shall require that each landlord for a 
privatized military housing unit--
            (1) have an electronic work order system for all work 
        orders for maintenance requests relating to such unit; and
            (2) provide to a tenant of such unit access to such system 
        to, at a minimum, track the status and progress of work orders 
        for maintenance requests relating to such unit.

                   Subtitle B--Prioritizing Families

SEC. 3031. DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS FOR LANDLORD-TENANT DISPUTES 
              REGARDING PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING AND REQUESTS TO 
              WITHHOLD PAYMENTS.

    (a) Dispute Resolution and Request to Withhold Payment.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new sections:
``Sec. 2891. Landlord-tenant dispute resolution process
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall implement a 
standardized formal dispute resolution process on each military 
installation with housing units under this subchapter to ensure the 
prompt and fair resolution of landlord-tenant disputes concerning 
maintenance and repairs, damage claims, rental payments, move-out 
charges, and such other issues relating to such housing units as the 
Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(b) Dispute Submittal.--(1) Each landlord shall establish a 
process through which a tenant of a housing unit under this subchapter 
may submit a dispute directly to the landlord through an online or 
other form.
    ``(2) Not later than 24 hours after receiving a dispute submittal 
from a tenant under paragraph (1), the landlord shall--
            ``(A) notify the tenant that the submittal has been 
        received; and
            ``(B) transmit a copy of such submittal to the housing 
        management office of the installation in which the housing unit 
        is located.
    ``(3)(A) Not later than seven days after receiving a dispute 
submittal from a tenant under paragraph (1), the landlord shall--
            ``(i) submit to the tenant a decision regarding the 
        dispute; and
            ``(ii) transmit a copy of such decision to the housing 
        management office.
    ``(B)(i) For purposes of conducting an assessment necessary to make 
a decision under subparagraph (A) with respect to a housing unit, the 
landlord may access the housing unit at a time and for a duration 
mutually agreed upon by the landlord and the tenant.
    ``(ii) The tenant may request that an employee of the housing 
management office be present when the landlord accesses the housing 
unit of the tenant under clause (i).
    ``(c) Appeals.--(1) Not later than 30 days after a tenant receives 
a decision by a landlord under subsection (b)(3), the tenant may appeal 
that decision for review under subsection (d) by the commander of the 
military installation at which the housing unit is located.
    ``(2) Any appeal submitted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted--
            ``(A) on a standardized form; and
            ``(B) to an address designated by the commander for such 
        purpose.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall ensure that, in preparing an appeal to 
the commander under this subsection, a tenant shall have access to 
advice and assistance from a military housing advocate employed by the 
military department concerned or a military legal assistance attorney 
under section 1044 of this title.
    ``(d) Review Process.--(1) The commander of each military 
installation with housing units under this subchapter shall establish a 
military privatized housing dispute resolution appeals process--
            ``(A) to review and decide appeals by tenants under 
        subsection (c) relating to such housing units; and
            ``(B) to review and decide requests to withhold payments 
        under section 2891a of this title
    ``(2)(A) Before making any decision with respect to an appeal or a 
request under the process established under paragraph (1) with respect 
to a housing unit, the commander shall certify that the commander has 
solicited recommendations or information relating to such appeal or 
request from the following:
            ``(i) The chief of the housing management office of the 
        installation.
            ``(ii) A representative of the landlord for the housing 
        unit.
            ``(iii) The tenant filing the appeal or request.
            ``(iv) A qualified judge advocate of the military 
        department concerned.
            ``(v) The civil engineer for the installation.
    ``(3)(A) The commander shall make a decision with respect to an 
appeal or a request under the process established under paragraph (1) 
not later than 30 days after the appeal or request has been made.
    ``(B) A commander may take longer than the 30-day period set forth 
under subparagraph (A) to make a decision described in such 
subparagraph in limited circumstances as determined by the Secretary of 
Defense, but in no case shall such a decision be made more than 60 days 
after the appeal or request has been made.
    ``(4) Decisions by a commander under this subsection shall be 
final.
    ``(e) Rule of Construction on Use of Other Adjudicative Bodies.--
Nothing in this section or any other provision of law shall be 
construed to prohibit a tenant of a housing unit under this subchapter 
from pursuing a claim against a landlord in any adjudicative body with 
jurisdiction over the housing unit or the claim.
``Sec. 2891a. Request to withhold payments
    ``(a) In General.--A member of the armed forces or family member of 
a member of the armed forces who is a tenant of a housing unit under 
this subchapter may submit to the commander of the installation of the 
Department of Defense at which the member is stationed a request to 
withhold all or part of any basic allowance for housing payable to the 
member (including for any dependents of the member in the member's 
household) under section 403 of title 37, or all or part of any pay of 
a tenant subject to allotment as described in section 2882(c) of this 
title, for lease of the unit during the period in which--
            ``(1) the landlord responsible for such housing unit has 
        not met maintenance guidelines and procedures established by 
        the landlord or the Department of Defense, either through 
        contract or otherwise; or
            ``(2) such housing unit is uninhabitable according to State 
        and local law for the jurisdiction in which the housing unit is 
        located.
    ``(b) Procedures.--(1) Upon the filing of a request by a tenant 
under subsection (a)--
            ``(A) under such procedures as the Secretary of Defense 
        shall establish, the Defense Finance and Accounting Service 
        (DFAS) or such other appropriate office or offices of the 
        Department of Defense as the Secretary shall specify for 
        purposes of such procedures, shall tentatively grant the 
        request and hold any amounts withheld in escrow with notice to 
        the landlord; and
            ``(B) the housing management office of the installation in 
        which the housing unit is located shall, not later than 15 days 
        after the date on which the request was submitted to the 
        commander of the installation, complete an investigation that 
        includes an inspection conducted by housing inspectors that are 
        certified at the State and local level.
    ``(2) If the commander agrees with a request by a tenant under 
subsection (a) with respect to a housing unit, the housing management 
office shall notify the landlord responsible for such unit of the 
issues described in subsection (a) that require remediation in 
accordance with the requirements of the Department of Defense or State 
or local law.
    ``(c) Remediation.--In accordance with procedures established under 
subsection (b)(1)(A) for the withholding of any basic allowance for 
housing or other allotment pay under this section, if the landlord 
responsible for the housing unit does not remediate the issues 
described in subsection (a) within a reasonable period of time 
established by the commander of the installation for the remediation of 
the issues, the amount payable to the landlord for such unit shall be 
reduced by 10 percent for each period of five days during which the 
issues are not remediated.
    ``(d) Disclosure of Rights.--(1) Each housing management office of 
an installation of the Department of Defense shall disclose in writing 
to each new tenant of a housing unit under this subchapter, upon the 
signing of the lease for the housing unit, their rights with respect to 
the housing unit and the procedures under this section for submitting a 
request to the landlord responsible for the housing unit.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each lease entered 
into with a tenant for a housing unit under this subchapter clearly 
expresses in a separate addendum the procedures under this section for 
submitting a request to the landlord responsible for the housing 
unit.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such subchapter is amended by adding at the end 
        the following new items:

``2891. Landlord-tenant dispute resolution process.
``2891a. Request to withhold payments.''.
    (b) Modification of Definition of Military Legal Assistance.--
Section 1044(d)(3)(B) of such title is amended by striking ``and 
1565b(a)(1)(A)'' and inserting ``1565b(a)(1)(A), and 2891(c)(3)''.
    (c) Timing of Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
establish the dispute resolution process required under section 2891 of 
title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
    (d) Agreement by Landlords.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall seek agreement from all landlords to 
        participate in the dispute resolution process required under 
        section 2891 of such title.
            (2) Submittal of list to congress.--Not later than March 1, 
        2020, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a list of all landlords who did not agree under 
        paragraph (1) to participate in the dispute resolution process 
        under section 2891 of such title.
            (3) Consideration of lack of agreement in future 
        contracts.--The Secretary shall include any lack of agreement 
        under paragraph (1) as past performance considered under 
        section 2888 of such title with respect to entering into or 
        renewing any future contracts.

SEC. 3032. SUSPENSION OF RESIDENT ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall suspend the 
initiative of the Department of Defense known as the ``Resident Energy 
Conservation Program'' and instruct the Secretary of each military 
department to suspend any program carried out by such Secretary that 
measures the energy usage for each military housing unit on an 
installation of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Term of Suspension.--The suspension under subsection (a) shall 
remain in effect until the Secretary of Defense certifies to the 
congressional defense committees that--
            (1) 100 percent of military housing on an installation of 
        the Department of Defense is individually metered; and
            (2) energy audits conducted by an independent entity, or 
        entities, confirm that such housing is individually metered.
    (c) Termination.--If the Secretary of Defense is unable to make the 
certification under subsection (b), each program described in 
subsection (a) shall be terminated on the date that is two years after 
the date of the enactment this Act.

SEC. 3033. ACCESS BY TENANTS TO HISTORICAL MAINTENANCE INFORMATION FOR 
              PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2892. Access by tenants to historical maintenance information
    ``The Secretary shall require each landlord that provides housing 
under this subchapter at an installation of the Department of Defense 
to provide a prospective tenant of such housing, before the tenant 
moves in, all information regarding maintenance conducted with respect 
to that housing unit for the previous 10 years.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2891 the following new item:

``2892. Access by tenants to historical maintenance information.''.

SEC. 3034. PROHIBITION ON USE OF CALL CENTERS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES 
              FOR MAINTENANCE CALLS BY TENANTS OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
              HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2886 the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2886a. Prohibiting use of call centers outside the United States 
              for tenant maintenance calls
    ``A landlord responsible for a housing unit under this subchapter 
may not use a call center outside the United States for any call from a 
tenant relating to maintenance with respect to the housing unit.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2886 the following new item:

``2886a. Prohibiting use of call centers outside the United States for 
                            tenant maintenance calls.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 3035. RADON TESTING FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
identifying the installations of the Department of Defense that have 
privatized military housing that should be monitored for radon.
    (b) Initial Testing.--
            (1) Procedures.--The Secretary shall establish testing 
        procedures for all privatized military housing at installations 
        identified under subsection (a), whether through regular 
        testing of such housing or the installation of monitoring 
        equipment, to ensure radon levels are below recommended levels 
        established by the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Completion of testing.--Not later than June 1, 2020, 
        the Secretary shall complete testing described in paragraph (1) 
        for all privatized military housing identified under subsection 
        (a).
    (c) Notification Regarding Mitigation Device.--In the event that a 
privatized military housing unit is determined under testing under 
subsection (b)(2) to need a radon mitigation device, the Secretary 
shall notify the landlord of such unit not later than seven days after 
such determination.
    (d) Annual Testing.--Not less frequently than annually, the 
Secretary of each military department shall certify to the 
congressional defense committees that radon testing is being conducted 
for privatized military housing at installations identified under 
subsection (a) under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned, 
whether through regular testing of such housing or the installation of 
monitoring equipment.

SEC. 3036. EXPANSION OF WINDOWS COVERED BY REQUIREMENT TO USE WINDOW 
              FALL PREVENTION DEVICES IN PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    Section 2879(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``24 inches'' and inserting ``42 inches''.

SEC. 3037. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO MOVE OUT AND MAINTENANCE WITH 
              RESPECT TO PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of each 
military department, shall--
            (1) develop a uniform move-out checklist for tenants of 
        privatized military housing throughout the Department of 
        Defense to assist the oversight of such housing by the housing 
        management office of the installation at which such housing is 
        located;
            (2) develop a uniform checklist throughout the Department 
        for the validation by the housing management office of the 
        completion of all maintenance work related to health and safety 
        issues at privatized military housing; and
            (3) require that all maintenance issues and work orders 
        related to health and safety issues at privatized military 
        housing be reported to the commander of the installation at 
        which the housing is located.

                Subtitle C--Long-Term Quality Assurance

SEC. 3041. DEVELOPMENT OF STANDARDIZED DOCUMENTATION, TEMPLATES, AND 
              FORMS FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of each military department, shall develop throughout the 
Department of Defense standardized documentation, templates, and forms 
for privatized military housing.
    (b) Initial Guidance.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance to 
develop the following:
            (1) Policies and standard operating procedures of the 
        Department for privatized military housing.
            (2) A universal lease agreement for privatized military 
        housing that includes--
                    (A) the Tenant Bill of Rights under section 2887 of 
                title 10, United States Code; and
                    (B) any addendum required by the law of the State 
                in which the housing unit is located.
            (3) A standardized operating agreement for landlords.
    (c) Military Department Plans.--Not later than February 1, 2020, 
the Secretary of each military department shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a plan for the implementation of this 
section by that military department.

SEC. 3042. COUNCIL ON PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary concerned shall establish 
a council (in this section referred to as the ``Council'') to identify 
and resolve problems with privatized military housing at installations 
of the Department of Defense under the jurisdiction of the Assistant 
Secretary concerned.
    (b) Members.--
            (1) In general.--Each Council shall be comprised of the 
        Assistant Secretary concerned and the following members 
        selected by the Assistant Secretary concerned:
                    (A) Not fewer than two civil engineers employed at 
                an installation under the jurisdiction of the Assistant 
                Secretary concerned.
                    (B) Not fewer than two chiefs of a housing 
                management office at such an installation.
                    (C) Not fewer than two commanders of such an 
                installation.
            (2) Limitation.--In each Council, not more than two members 
        may be from the same installation.
            (3) Terms.--
                    (A) Two years.--The term for a member of the 
                Council, other than the Assistant Secretary concerned, 
                shall be two years.
                    (B) Limitation on terms.--A member of the Council, 
                other than the Assistant Secretary concerned, may serve 
                not more than two terms.
    (c) Duties.--Each Council shall review, at a minimum, the 
following:
            (1) Systemic concerns from tenants relating to privatized 
        military housing under the jurisdiction of the Assistant 
        Secretary concerned.
            (2) Best practices for housing management offices at 
        installations under the jurisdiction of the Assistant Secretary 
        concerned.
            (3) Best practices for handling installation-wide 
        maintenance issues.
    (d) Meetings.--Each Council shall meet not less frequently than 
quarterly.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the first meeting of the 
Council, and not later than October 1 of each year thereafter, the 
Council shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a report on the 
findings of the Council during the period covered by the report.
    (f) Assistant Secretary Concerned.--The term ``Assistant Secretary 
concerned'' means--
            (1) with respect to the Army, the Assistant Secretary of 
        the Army for Energy, Installations, and Environment;
            (2) with respect to the Navy, the Marine Corps, and the 
        Coast Guard when it is operating as a service in the Department 
        of the Navy, the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Energy, 
        Installations, and Environment; and
            (3) with respect to the Air Force, the Assistant Secretary 
        of the Air Force for Energy, Installations, and Environment.

SEC. 3043. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO MANAGEMENT OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
              HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2872b following new 
section:
``Sec. 2872c. Requirements relating to management of housing
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
operating agreement for each installation of the Department of Defense 
at which on-base housing is managed by a landlord under this subchapter 
includes the requirements set forth in this section relating to such 
housing.
    ``(b) Requirements for Installation Commanders.--The commander of 
each installation described in subsection (a) shall do the following:
            ``(1) On an annual basis, review and approve the mold 
        mitigation plan and pest control plan of each landlord at such 
        installation.
            ``(2) Use the assigned bio-environmental personnel or 
        contractor equivalent at such installation to test for mold, 
        unsafe water conditions, and other health and safety conditions 
        if requested by the head of the housing management office of 
        such installation.
    ``(c) Requirements for Housing Management Office.--The head of the 
housing management office of each installation described in subsection 
(a) shall, with respect to housing units under this subchapter, do the 
following:
            ``(1) Conduct physical inspections and approve the 
        habitability of each vacant housing unit before the landlord 
        offers the unit available for occupancy.
            ``(2) Conduct physical inspections upon tenant move out and 
        receive copies of any move out charges that a landlord seeks to 
        collect from an outgoing tenant.
            ``(3) Establish contact with a tenant regarding the 
        satisfaction of the tenant with the housing unit not later 
        than--
                    ``(A) 15 days after move-in; and
                    ``(B) 60 days after move-in.
            ``(4) Maintain all test results relating to the health, 
        environmental, and safety condition of a housing unit and the 
        results of any official housing inspection for the life of the 
        contract relating to that housing unit.
    ``(d) Requirements for Landlords.--The landlord of any housing unit 
under this subchapter at an installation described in subsection (a) 
shall do the following:
            ``(1) Disclose to the Secretary of Defense bonus structures 
        for community managers and regional executives and bonus 
        structures relating to maintenance to minimize the impact of 
        those incentives on the operating budget of the installation.
            ``(2) With respect to test results relating to the health 
        and safety condition of the housing unit--
                    ``(A) not later than three days after receiving 
                those results, share those results with the tenant of 
                such unit and submit those results to the head of the 
                housing management office for the installation; and
                    ``(B) include with any environmental hazard test 
                results a simple guide explaining those results, 
                preferably citing standards set forth by the Federal 
                Government relating to environmental hazards.
            ``(3) Conduct a walkthrough inspection before a prospective 
        tenant signs a lease--
                    ``(A) with the prospective tenant; or
                    ``(B) if the prospective tenant is not able to be 
                present for the inspection, with an official of the 
                housing management office designated by the prospective 
                tenant to conduct the inspection on their behalf.
            ``(4) In the event that the housing unit does not meet 
        minimum health, safety, and welfare standards set forth in 
        Federal, State, and local law after inspection under subsection 
        (c)(1), the landlord shall remediate any issues and make any 
        appropriate repairs prior to another inspection by the housing 
        management office under such subsection.
            ``(5) Not conduct any promotional events to incentivize 
        tenants to fill out maintenance comment cards or satisfaction 
        surveys of any kind without the approval of the chief of the 
        housing management office.
            ``(6) Not award an installation of the Department or an 
        officer or employee of the Department a `Partner of the Year' 
        award or similar award.
            ``(7) Not have a tenant agree to any form of settlement, 
        nondisclosure, or release of liability without--
                    ``(A) first notifying the tenant of their right to 
                assistance from the legal assistance office at the 
                installation; and
                    ``(B) not later than five days before agreeing to 
                any such settlement, nondisclosure, or release of 
                liability, providing a copy of such agreement to the 
                Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment;
            ``(8) Not change the position of a prospective tenant on a 
        waiting list for a housing unit or remove a prospective tenant 
        from the waiting list if the prospective tenant turns down an 
        offer for a housing unit determined unsatisfactory by the 
        prospective tenant and confirmed by the housing management 
        office and the commander of the installation.
            ``(9) Allow, with permission of the tenant as appropriate, 
        employees of the housing management office and other officers 
        and employees of the Department to conduct physical inspections 
        of common grounds and individual quarters of the housing unit.
            ``(10) Agree to a mechanism under which all or part of 
        basic allowance for housing payable to the tenant (including 
        for any dependents of the tenant in the tenant's household) 
        under section 403 of title 37, or all or part of any other 
        allotment of pay under section 2882(c) of this title can be 
        held in escrow until--
                    ``(A) any dispute between the tenant and the 
                landlord is resolved; and
                    ``(B) the commander of the installation has 
                reviewed and decided such dispute.
            ``(11) Ensure that the needs of enrollees in the 
        Exceptional Family Member Program, or any successor program, 
        are considered in assigning prospective tenants to housing 
        units.
            ``(12) Keep any maintenance work order system up to date 
        with the latest software, functionality, and features.
            ``(13) Have any agreements or forms to be used by the 
        landlord approved by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Sustainment, including the following:
                    ``(A) A common lease agreement.
                    ``(B) Any disclosure or nondisclosure forms that 
                could be given to a tenant.
                    ``(C) Any notices required to be provided to the 
                tenant under the Tenant Bill of Rights under section 
                2887 of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2872b the following new item:

``2872c. Requirements relating to management of housing.''.
    (c) Military Department Plans.--Not later than February 1, 2020, 
the Secretary of each military department shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a plan for the implementation by that 
military department of section 2872c of title 10, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a).

SEC. 3044. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO CONTRACTS FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
              HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2872c the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2872d. Requirements relating to contracts for provision of 
              housing
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of each military department shall 
include in any contract for a term of more than 10 years with a 
landlord for the provision of housing under this subchapter at an 
installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned the 
following:
            ``(1) The Secretary concerned may renegotiate the contract 
        with the landlord not less frequently than once every five 
        years.
            ``(2) The landlord shall prohibit any employee of the 
        landlord who commits work order fraud under the contract, as 
        determined by the Secretary concerned, from doing any work 
        under the contract.
            ``(3) If the landlord fails to or is unable to remedy any 
        health or environmental hazard at a housing unit under the 
        contract, such failure or inability will be taken into 
        consideration in determining whether to pay or withhold all or 
        part of any incentive fees for which the landlord may be 
        eligible under the contract.
            ``(4) If the landlord is found by the Secretary concerned 
        to have not maintained the minimum standards of habitability 
        for a housing unit under such contract, the landlord shall pay 
        all medical bills for a tenant of such housing unit that are 
        associated with the conditions of such housing unit that do not 
        meet such minimum standards.
            ``(5) The landlord shall pay reasonable relocation costs 
        associated with the permanent relocation of a tenant from a 
        housing unit of the landlord to new housing due to health or 
        environmental hazards--
                    ``(A) present in the housing unit being vacated 
                through no fault of the tenant; and
                    ``(B) confirmed by the housing management office of 
                the installation as making the unit uninhabitable.
            ``(6) The landlord shall pay reasonable relocation costs 
        and actual costs of living, including per diem, associated with 
        the temporary relocation of a tenant to new housing due to 
        health or environmental hazards--
                    ``(A) present in the housing unit being vacated 
                through no fault of the tenant; and
                    ``(B) confirmed by the housing management office of 
                the installation as making the unit uninhabitable.
            ``(7) The landlord shall ensure that the maintenance work 
        order system of the landlord (hardware and software) is up to 
        date, including by --
                    ``(A) providing a reliable mechanism through which 
                a tenant may submit work order requests through an 
                Internet portal and mobile application, which shall 
                incorporate the ability to upload photos, communicate 
                with maintenance personnel, and rate individual service 
                calls;
                    ``(B) allowing real-time access to such system by 
                officials of the Department at the installation, major 
                subordinate command, and service-wide levels; and
                    ``(C) allowing the work order or maintenance ticket 
                to be closed only once the tenant and the head of the 
                housing management office of the installation sign off.
    ``(b) Payment of Actual Costs of Living.--The landlord shall pay 
actual costs of living under subsection (a)(6) in connection with a 
health or environmental hazard until such time as--
            ``(1)(A) the health or environmental hazard is remediated;
            ``(B) the housing unit being vacated is determined to be 
        habitable by the tenant, the housing management office of the 
        installation, and chain of command; and
            ``(C) the tenant resumes occupancy of the housing unit; or
            ``(2) the tenant moves to a new housing unit.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2872c the following new item:

``2872d. Requirements relating to contracts for provision of 
                            housing.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--Section 2872d of such title, as added by 
subsection (a), shall apply to contracts entered into or renewed on and 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 3045. WITHHOLDING OF INCENTIVE FEES FOR LANDLORDS OF PRIVATIZED 
              MILITARY HOUSING FOR FAILURE TO REMEDY A HEALTH OR 
              ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARD.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2874b the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2874c. Withholding of incentive fees for landlords
    ``The Secretary of Defense shall withhold incentive fees paid to a 
landlord for failure by the landlord to remedy a health or 
environmental hazard at a housing unit under this subchapter, as 
determined by the Secretary.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2874b the following new item:

``2874c. Withholding of incentive fees for landlords.''.

SEC. 3046. EXPANSION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              FOR CHILDCARE SERVICES PROVIDERS FOR DEPARTMENT CHILD 
              DEVELOPMENT CENTERS TO INCLUDE DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR 
              INSTALLATION MILITARY HOUSING OFFICE PERSONNEL.

    (a) In General.--Section 559 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1406; 10 U.S.C. 
1792 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``, and individuals to fill vacancies in 
                installation military housing offices,'' after 
                ``childcare services providers'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or for 
                employees at installation military housing offices'' 
                before the semicolon; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or for 
                installation military housing office employees'' before 
                the period;
            (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f) Installation Military Housing Office Defined.--The term 
`installation military housing office' means any office whose primary 
function is performing day-to-day supervision of military housing 
covered by subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States 
Code.''.
    (b) Heading and Technical Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 599. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR 
              CHILDCARE SERVICES PROVIDERS FOR DEPARTMENT CHILD 
              DEVELOPMENT CENTERS AND INSTALLATION MILITARY HOUSING 
              OFFICES.''.

            (2) Technical amendment.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
        amended by striking ``Oversight and Government Reform'' and 
        inserting ``Oversight and Reform''.
    (c) Use of Existing Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
use the authority in section 599 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 granted by the amendments made by this section 
in a manner consistent with the regulations prescribed for purposes of 
such section 599 pursuant to subsection (b) of such section 599, 
without the need to prescribe separate regulations for the use of such 
authority.

SEC. 3047. PLAN ON ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE JURISDICTION 
              OVER OFF-BASE PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of each 
military department, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a plan to establish jurisdiction by the Department of 
Defense, concurrently with local community law enforcement, at 
locations with privatized military housing that is not located on an 
installation of the Department of Defense.

                   Subtitle D--Other Housing Matters

SEC. 3051. LEAD-BASED PAINT TESTING AND REPORTING.

    (a) Establishment of Department of Defense Policy on Lead Testing 
on Military Installations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall establish a policy under which--
                    (A) a qualified individual may access a military 
                installation for the purpose of conducting lead testing 
                on the installation, subject to the approval of the 
                Secretary; and
                    (B) the results of any lead testing conducted on a 
                military installation shall be transmitted--
                            (i) in the case of a military installation 
                        located inside the United States, to--
                                    (I) the civil engineer of the 
                                installation;
                                    (II) the housing management office 
                                of the installation;
                                    (III) the major subordinate command 
                                of the Armed Force with jurisdiction 
                                over the installation; and
                                    (IV) if required by law, any 
                                relevant Federal, State, and local 
                                agencies; and
                            (ii) in the case of a military installation 
                        located outside the United States, to the civil 
                        engineer or commander of the installation who 
                        shall transmit those results to the major 
                        subordinate command of the Armed Force with 
                        jurisdiction over the installation.
            (2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) United states.--The term ``United States'' has 
                the meaning given such term in section 101(a)(1) of 
                title 10, United States Code.
                    (B) Qualified individual.--The term ``qualified 
                individual'' means an individual who is certified by 
                the Environmental Protection Agency or by a State as--
                            (i) a lead-based paint inspector; or
                            (ii) a lead-based paint risk assessor.
    (b) Annual Reporting on Lead-based Paint in Military Housing.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter III of chapter 169 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new section:
``Sec. 2869a. Annual reporting on lead-based paint in military housing
    ``(a) Annual Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than February 1 of each year, 
        the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report that sets forth, with respect to 
        military housing under the jurisdiction of each Secretary of a 
        military department for the calendar year preceding the year in 
        which the report is submitted, the following:
                    ``(A) A certification that indicates whether the 
                military housing under the jurisdiction of the 
                Secretary concerned is in compliance with the 
                requirements respecting lead-based paint, lead-based 
                paint activities, and lead-based paint hazards 
                described in section 408 of the Toxic Substances 
                Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2688).
                    ``(B) A detailed summary of the data, disaggregated 
                by military department, used in making the 
                certification under subparagraph (A).
                    ``(C) The total number of military housing units 
                under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned that 
                were inspected for lead-based paint in accordance with 
                the requirements described in subparagraph (A).
                    ``(D) The total number of military housing units 
                under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned that 
                were not inspected for lead-based paint.
                    ``(E) The total number of military housing units 
                that were found to contain lead-based paint in the 
                course of the inspections described in subparagraph 
                (C).
                    ``(F) A description of any abatement efforts with 
                respect to lead-based paint conducted regarding the 
                military housing units described in subparagraph (E).
            ``(2) Publication.--The Secretary of Defense shall publish 
        each report submitted under paragraph (1) on a publicly 
        available website of the Department of Defense.
    ``(b) Military Housing Defined.--In this section, the term 
`military housing' includes military family housing and military 
unaccompanied housing (as such term is defined in section 2871 of this 
title).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such subchapter is amended by adding at the end 
        the following new item:

``2869a. Annual reporting on lead-based paint in military housing.''.

SEC. 3052. SATISFACTION SURVEY FOR TENANTS OF MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall require that each installation of the Department of 
Defense use the same satisfaction survey for tenants of military 
housing, which shall be an electronic survey with embedded privacy and 
security mechanisms.
    (b) Privacy and Security Mechanisms.--The privacy and security 
mechanisms used under subsection (a)--
            (1) may include a code unique to the tenant to be surveyed 
        that is sent to the cell phone number of the tenant and 
        required to be entered to access the survey; and
            (2) in the case of housing under subchapter IV of chapter 
        169 of title 10, United States Code, shall ensure that the 
        survey is not shared with the landlord of the housing unit 
        until the survey is reviewed and the results are tallied by an 
        employee of the Department of Defense.

SEC. 3053. INFORMATION ON LEGAL SERVICES PROVIDED TO MEMBERS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES HARMED BY HEALTH OR ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS AT 
              MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the legal services that the Secretary 
may provide to members of the Armed Forces who have been harmed by a 
health or environmental hazard while living in military housing.
    (b) Availability of Information.--The Secretary of the military 
department concerned shall make the information contained in the report 
submitted under subsection (a) available to members of the Armed Forces 
at all installations of the Department of Defense in the United States.

SEC. 3054. MITIGATION OF RISKS POSED BY CERTAIN ITEMS IN MILITARY 
              FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    (a) Anchoring of Items by Residents.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall allow a resident of a military family housing unit to anchor any 
furniture, television, or large appliance to the wall of the unit for 
purposes of preventing such item from tipping over without incurring a 
penalty or obligation to repair the wall upon vacating the unit.
    (b) Anchoring of Items for All Units.--
            (1) Existing units.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        ensure that all freestanding chests, door chests, armoires, 
        dressers, entertainment centers, bookcases taller than 27 
        inches, televisions, and large appliances provided by the 
        Department of Defense are securely anchored in each furnished 
        military family housing unit under the jurisdiction of the 
        Department as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) New units.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
        all freestanding chests, door chests, armoires, dressers, 
        entertainment centers, bookcases taller than 27 inches, 
        televisions, and large appliances provided by the Department of 
        Defense are securely anchored in each furnished military family 
        housing unit made available after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.

SEC. 3055. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO CERTAIN PAYMENTS FOR LESSORS OF 
              PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    Paragraph (3) of section 606(d) of the John S. McCain National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 
U.S.C. 2871 note) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) The term `MHPI housing' means housing procured, 
        acquired, constructed, or for which any phase or portion of a 
        project agreement was first finalized and signed, under the 
        alternative authority of subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 
        10, United States Code (known as the Military Housing 
        Privatization Initiative), on or before September 30, 2014.''.

SEC. 3056. PILOT PROGRAM TO BUILD AND MONITOR USE OF SINGLE FAMILY 
              HOMES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Army shall carry out a pilot 
program to build and monitor the use of not fewer than 5 single family 
homes for members of the Army and their families.
    (b) Location.--The Secretary of the Army shall carry out the pilot 
program at an installation of the Army as determined by the Secretary.
    (c) Design.--In building homes under the pilot program, the 
Secretary of the Army shall use the All-American Abode design from the 
suburban single-family division design by the United States Military 
Academy.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Army $1,000,000 to carry out the 
pilot program under this section.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2020 for 
the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in 
carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 
4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out new plant projects for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration as follows:
            Project 20-D-931, KL Fuel Development Laboratory, Knolls 
        Atomic Power Laboratory, Schenectady, New York, $23,700,000.
            General Purpose Project, PF-4 Power and Communications 
        Systems Upgrade, Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico, 
        $16,000,000.

SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2020 for 
defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out programs as 
specified in the funding table in section 4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out, for defense environmental cleanup 
activities, the following new plant projects:
            Project 20-D-401, Saltstone Disposal Units numbers 10, 11, 
        and 12, Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $1,000,000.
            Project 20-D-402, Advanced Manufacturing Collaborative, 
        Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $50,000,000.
            Project 20-U-401, On-Site Waste Disposal Facility (Cell 
        Lines 2 and 3), Portsmouth Site, Pike County, Ohio, 
        $10,000,000.

SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2020 for other defense activities in carrying 
out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.

SEC. 3104. NUCLEAR ENERGY.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2020 for nuclear energy as specified in the 
funding table in section 4701.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 3111. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY 
              ADMINISTRATION ACT AND ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACT.

    (a) Definitions in National Nuclear Security Administration Act.--
Section 3281(2)(A) of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2471(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``Plant'' and inserting 
``National Security Campus''.
    (b) Amendments to Atomic Energy Defense Act.--
            (1) Definitions.--Section 4002(9)(A) of the Atomic Energy 
        Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501(9)(A)) is amended striking 
        ``Plant'' and inserting ``National Security Campus''.
            (2) Stockpile stewardship, management, and responsiveness 
        plan.--Section 4203 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
        2523) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d)(4)(A)(ii), by striking 
                ``quadrennial defense review if such strategy has not 
                been submitted'' and inserting ``national defense 
                strategy'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)(1)(A)(i), by striking ``or 
                the most recent quadrennial defense review, as 
                applicable under subsection (d)(4)(A), and the'' and 
                inserting ``referred to in subsection (d)(4)(A)(i), the 
                most recent the national defense strategy, and the most 
                recent''; and
                    (C) in subsection (f)--
                            (i) by striking paragraph (4);
                            (ii) by redesignating paragraph (3) as 
                        paragraph (4); and
                            (iii) by inserting after paragraph (2) the 
                        following new paragraph (3):
            ``(3) The term `national defense strategy' means the review 
        of the defense programs and policies of the United States that 
        is carried out every four years under section 113(g) of title 
        10, United States Code.''.
            (3) Manufacturing infrastructure for nuclear weapons 
        stockpile.--Section 4212 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
        U.S.C. 2532) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``most recent'' before 
                ``Nuclear Posture Review''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Plant'' 
                        and inserting ``National Security Complex''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in paragraph (4), by striking 
                        ``Plant'' and inserting ``National Security 
                        Campus, Kansas City, Missouri''.
            (4) Reports on life extension programs.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 4216 of the Atomic Energy 
                Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2536) is amended--
                            (i) in the section heading, by striking 
                        ``lifetime'' and inserting ``life''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``lifetime'' each place it 
                        appears and inserting ``life''.
                    (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for 
                the Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking 
                the item relating to section 4216 and inserting the 
                following new item:

``Sec. 4216. Reports on life extension programs.''.
            (5) Advice on safety, security, and reliability of nuclear 
        weapons stockpile.--Section 4218 of the Atomic Energy Defense 
        Act (50 U.S.C. 2538) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d), by striking ``or the 
                Commander of the United States Strategic Command''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``, a member of'' and all 
                        that follows through ``Strategic Command'' and 
                        inserting ``or a member of the Nuclear Weapons 
                        Council''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``, member, or Commander'' 
                        and inserting ``or member''.
            (6) Life-cycle cost estimates.--Section 4714(a) of the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2754(a)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``413.3'' and inserting ``413.3B''; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting ``, or a successor order,'' after 
                ``assets)''.
            (7) Unfunded priorities.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 4716 of the Atomic Energy 
                Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2756) is amended in the section 
                heading by striking ``national nuclear security 
                administration'' and inserting ``administration''.
                    (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for 
                the Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking 
                the item relating to section 4716 and inserting the 
                following new item:

``Sec. 4716. Unfunded priorities of the Administration.''.
            (8) Reviews of capital assets acquisition projects.--
        Section 4733(d)(3)(B) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
        U.S.C. 2773(d)(3)(B)) is amended by striking ``413.3'' and 
        inserting ``413.3B''.

SEC. 3112. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION PERSONNEL SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle C of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2441 et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
end the following new section:

``SEC. 3248. ALTERNATIVE PERSONNEL SYSTEM.

    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator may adapt the pay banding and 
performance-based pay adjustment demonstration project carried out by 
the Administration under the authority provided by section 4703 of 
title 5, United States Code, into a permanent alternative personnel 
system for the Administration (to be known as the `National Nuclear 
Security Administration Personnel System') and implement that system 
with respect to employees of the Administration.
    ``(b) Modifications.--In adapting the demonstration project 
described in subsection (a) into a permanent alternative personnel 
system, the Administrator--
            ``(1) may, subject to paragraph (2), revise the 
        requirements and limitations of the demonstration project to 
        the extent necessary; and
            ``(2) shall--
                    ``(A) ensure that the permanent alternative 
                personnel system is carried out in a manner consistent 
                with the final plan for the demonstration project 
                published in the Federal Register on December 21, 2007 
                (72 Fed. Reg. 72776);
                    ``(B) ensure that significant changes in the system 
                not take effect until revisions to the plan for the 
                demonstration project are approved by the Office of 
                Personnel Management and published in the Federal 
                Register;
                    ``(C) ensure that procedural modifications or 
                clarifications to the final plan for the demonstration 
                project be made through local notification processes;
                    ``(D) authorize, and establish incentives for, 
                employees of the Administration to have rotational 
                assignments among different programs of the 
                Administration, the headquarters and field offices of 
                the Administration, and the management and operating 
                contractors of the Administration; and
                    ``(E) establish requirements for employees of the 
                Administration who are in the permanent alternative 
                personnel system described in subsection (a) to be 
                promoted to senior-level positions in the 
                Administration, including requirements with respect 
                to--
                            ``(i) professional training and continuing 
                        education; and
                            ``(ii) a certain number and types of 
                        rotational assignments under subparagraph (D), 
                        as determined by the Administrator.
    ``(c) Application to Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program.--The 
Director of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program established pursuant 
to section 4101 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2511) and 
section 3216 of this Act may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
the Navy, apply the alternative personnel system under subsection (a) 
to--
            ``(1) all employees of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program 
        in the competitive service (as defined in section 2102 of title 
        5, United States Code); and
            ``(2) all employees of the Department of Navy who are 
        assigned to the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program and are in the 
        excepted service (as defined in section 2103 of title 5, United 
        States Code) (other than such employees in statutory excepted 
        service systems).''.
    (b) Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear 
        Security shall provide a briefing to the appropriate 
        congressional committees on the implementation of section 3248 
        of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act, as added 
        by subsection (a).
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the congressional defense committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
                of the House of Representatives; and
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
                Representatives.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Section 3116 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1888; 50 U.S.C. 2441 note prec) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsections (a) and (d); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (a) and (b), respectively.
    (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration Act is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 3247 the following new item:

``Sec. 3248. Alternative personnel system.''.

SEC. 3113. CONTRACTING, PROGRAM MANAGEMENT, SCIENTIFIC, ENGINEERING, 
              AND TECHNICAL POSITIONS AT NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY 
              ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 3241 of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2441) is amended in the first sentence--
            (1) by striking ``may'' and inserting ``shall''; and
            (2) by striking ``not more than 600''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``authority to 
        establish'' and inserting ``establishment of''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``Subject to the 
        limitations in the preceding sentence, the authority'' and 
        inserting ``The authority''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration Act is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 3241 and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 3241. Establishment of contracting, program management, 
                            scientific, engineering, and technical 
                            positions.''.

SEC. 3114. PROHIBITION ON USE OF LABORATORY-DIRECTED RESEARCH AND 
              DEVELOPMENT FUNDS FOR GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE OVERHEAD 
              COSTS.

    Section 4811 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2791) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) Funds provided to a national security laboratory or nuclear 
weapons production facility for laboratory-directed research and 
development may not be used to cover the costs of general and 
administrative overhead for the laboratory or facility.''.

SEC. 3115. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR ADVANCED NAVAL NUCLEAR FUEL 
              SYSTEM BASED ON LOW-ENRICHED URANIUM.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration for fiscal year 2020 or any fiscal year 
thereafter may be obligated or expended to conduct research and 
development of an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-
enriched uranium until the following certifications are submitted to 
the congressional defense committees:
            (1) A joint certification of the Secretary of Energy and 
        the Secretary of Defense that the determination made by the 
        Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of the Navy pursuant to 
        section 3118(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1196) and 
        submitted to the congressional defense committees on March 25, 
        2018, that the United States should not pursue such research 
        and development, no longer reflects the policy of the United 
        States.
            (2) A certification of the Secretary of the Navy that an 
        advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched 
        uranium would not reduce vessel capability, increase expense, 
        or reduce operational availability as a result of refueling 
        requirements.

                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

SEC. 3121. ESTIMATION OF COSTS OF MEETING DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP 
              MILESTONES REQUIRED BY CONSENT ORDERS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLIV of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2581 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following section:

``SEC. 4409. ESTIMATION OF COSTS OF MEETING DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL 
              CLEANUP MILESTONES REQUIRED BY CONSENT ORDERS.

    ``The Secretary of Energy shall include in the budget justification 
materials submitted to Congress in support of the Department of Energy 
budget for each fiscal year (as submitted with the budget of the 
President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) a 
report on the cost of meeting milestones required by a consent order at 
each defense nuclear facility at which defense environmental cleanup 
activities are occurring. The report shall include, for each such 
facility--
            ``(1) a specification of the cost of meeting such 
        milestones during that fiscal year; and
            ``(2) an estimate of the cost of meeting such milestones 
        during the four fiscal years following that fiscal year.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 4408 the following new item:

``Sec. 4409. Estimation of costs of meeting defense environmental 
                            cleanup milestones required by consent 
                            orders.''.

SEC. 3122. EXTENSION OF SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN ASSESSMENTS RELATING TO 
              NUCLEAR WEAPONS STOCKPILE.

    Section 3255(b) of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2455(b)) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 2018 or 2019'' 
and inserting ``any of fiscal years 2018 through 2023''.

SEC. 3123. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR REVIEW RELATING TO ENHANCED 
              PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY.

    Section 4806 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2786) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (e); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively.

SEC. 3124. DETERMINATION OF EFFECT OF TREATY OBLIGATIONS WITH RESPECT 
              TO PRODUCING TRITIUM.

    Not later than February 15, 2020, the Secretary of Energy shall--
            (1) determine whether the Agreement for Cooperation on the 
        Uses of Atomic Energy for Mutual Defense Purposes, signed at 
        Washington July 3, 1958 (9 UST 1028), between the United States 
        and the United Kingdom, permits the United States to obtain 
        low-enriched uranium for the purposes of producing tritium in 
        the United States; and
            (2) submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        on that determination.

SEC. 3125. ASSESSMENT OF HIGH ENERGY DENSITY PHYSICS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall 
enter into an arrangement with the National Academies of Sciences, 
Engineering, and Medicine to conduct an assessment of recent advances 
and the current status of research in the field of high energy density 
physics.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment conducted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) Theoretical and computational modeling of high energy 
        density material phases, radiation-matter interactions, plasmas 
        atypical of astrophysical conditions, and conditions unique to 
        the National Nuclear Security Administration.
            (2) The simulation of such phases, interactions, plasmas, 
        and conditions.
            (3) Instrumentation and target fabrication.
            (4) Workforce training.
            (5) An assessment of advancements made by other countries 
        in high energy density physics.
            (6) Such others items as are agreed upon by the 
        Administrator and the National Academies.
    (c) Applicability of Internal Controls.--The assessment under 
subsection (a) shall be conducted in accordance with the internal 
controls of the National Academies.
    (d) Report to Congress.--Not later than 18 months after entering 
into the arrangement under subsection (a), the National Academy of 
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the assessment conducted under that 
subsection.
    (e) High Energy Density Physics Defined.--In this section, the term 
``high energy density physics'' means the physics of matter and 
radiation at--
            (1) energy densities exceeding 100,000,000,000 joules per 
        cubic meter; and
            (2) other temperature and pressure ranges within the warm 
        dense matter regime.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.

    There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020, 
$29,450,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 
et seq.).

SEC. 3202. IMPROVEMENT OF MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION OF DEFENSE 
              NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD.

    (a) Provision of Information to Board.--Subsection (c) of section 
311 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``paragraphs (5), (6), 
        and (7)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (5) and (6)'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (6); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (6).
    (b) Executive Director for Operations.--Paragraph (6) of such 
subsection, as redesignated by subsection (a)(3), is further amended in 
subparagraph (C)--
            (1) by redesignating clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) as 
        clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting before clause (ii), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1), the following new clause (i):
            ``(i) The executive director for operations, who shall 
        report directly to the Chairman.''.
    (c) Organization of Staff of Board.--Section 313(b) of such Act (42 
U.S.C. 2286b(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``section 311(c)(7)'' 
        and inserting ``section 311(c)(6)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) Subject to the approval of the Board, the Chairman may 
organize the staff of the Board as the Chairman considers appropriate 
to best accomplish the mission of the Board described in section 
312(a).''.

SEC. 3203. MEMBERSHIP OF DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD.

    (a) List of Candidates for Nomination.--Subsection (b) of section 
311 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) The President shall enter into an arrangement with the 
National Academy of Sciences under which the National Academy shall 
maintain a list of individuals who meet the qualifications described in 
paragraph (1) to assist the President in selecting individuals to 
nominate for positions as members of the Board.''.
    (b) Terms of Members.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking the second 
                sentence and inserting the following new sentence: ``A 
                member of the Board may not serve for two consecutive 
                terms.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the second 
                sentence and inserting the following new sentence: ``A 
                member may not serve after the expiration of the 
                member's term.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on April 1, 2020.
    (c) Filling Vacancies.--Such subsection is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4)(A) Not later than 180 days after the expiration of the term 
of a member of the Board, the President shall--
            ``(i) submit to the Senate the nomination of an individual 
        to fill the vacancy; or
            ``(ii) submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
        Senate a report that includes--
                    ``(I) a description of the reasons the President 
                did not submit such a nomination; and
                    ``(II) a plan for submitting such a nomination 
                during the 90-day period following the submission of 
                the report.
    ``(B) If the President does not submit to the Senate the nomination 
of an individual to fill a vacancy during the 90-day period described 
in subclause (II) of subparagraph (A)(ii), the President shall submit 
to the Committee on Armed Services a report described in that 
subparagraph not less frequently than every 90 days until the President 
submits such a nomination.''.

                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

SEC. 3501. MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.

    Section 109 of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 109. Maritime Administration
    ``(a) Organization and Mission.--The Maritime Administration is an 
administration in the Department of Transportation. The mission of the 
Maritime Administration is to foster, promote, and develop the merchant 
maritime industry of the United States.
    ``(b) Maritime Administrator.--The head of the Maritime 
Administration is the Maritime Administrator, who is appointed by the 
President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The 
Administrator shall report directly to the Secretary of Transportation 
and carry out the duties prescribed by the Secretary.
    ``(c) Deputy Maritime Administrator.--The Maritime Administration 
shall have a Deputy Maritime Administrator, who is appointed in the 
competitive service by the Secretary, after consultation with the 
Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall carry out the duties 
prescribed by the Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall be 
Acting Administrator during the absence or disability of the 
Administrator and, unless the Secretary designates another individual, 
during a vacancy in the office of Administrator.
    ``(d) Duties and Powers Vested in Secretary.--All duties and powers 
of the Maritime Administration are vested in the Secretary.
    ``(e) Regional Offices.--The Maritime Administration shall have 
regional offices for the Atlantic, Gulf, Great Lakes, and Pacific port 
ranges, and may have other regional offices as necessary. The Secretary 
shall appoint a qualified individual as Director of each regional 
office. The Secretary shall carry out appropriate activities and 
programs of the Maritime Administration through the regional offices.
    ``(f) Interagency and Industry Relations.--The Secretary shall 
establish and maintain liaison with other agencies, and with 
representative trade organizations throughout the United States, 
concerned with the transportation of commodities by water in the export 
and import foreign commerce of the United States, for the purpose of 
securing preference to vessels of the United States for the 
transportation of those commodities.
    ``(g) Detailing Officers From Armed Forces.--To assist the 
Secretary in carrying out duties and powers relating to the Maritime 
Administration, not more than five officers of the Armed Forces may be 
detailed to the Secretary at any one time, in addition to details 
authorized by any other law. During the period of a detail, the 
Secretary shall pay the officer an amount that, when added to the 
officer's pay and allowances as an officer in the Armed Forces, makes 
the officer's total pay and allowances equal to the amount that would 
be paid to an individual performing work the Secretary considers to be 
of similar importance, difficulty, and responsibility as that performed 
by the officer during the detail.
    ``(h) Contracts, Cooperative Agreements, and Audits.--
            ``(1) Contracts and cooperative agreements.--In the same 
        manner that a private corporation may make a contract within 
        the scope of its authority under its charter, the Secretary may 
        make contracts and cooperative agreements for the United States 
        Government and disburse amounts to--
                    ``(A) carry out the Secretary's duties and powers 
                under this section, subtitle V of title 46, and all 
                other Maritime Administration programs; and
                    ``(B) protect, preserve, and improve collateral 
                held by the Secretary to secure indebtedness.
            ``(2) Audits.--The financial transactions of the Secretary 
        under paragraph (1) shall be audited by the Comptroller 
        General. The Comptroller General shall allow credit for an 
        expenditure shown to be necessary because of the nature of the 
        business activities authorized by this section or subtitle V of 
        title 46. At least once a year, the Comptroller General shall 
        report to Congress any departure by the Secretary from this 
        section or subtitle V of title 46.
    ``(i) Grant Administrative Expenses.--Except as otherwise provided 
by law, the administrative and related expenses for the administration 
of any grant programs by the Maritime Administrator may not exceed 3 
percent.
    ``(j) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, there are authorized to be appropriated such 
        amounts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and powers 
        of the Secretary relating to the Maritime Administration.
            ``(2) Limitations.--Only those amounts specifically 
        authorized by law may be appropriated for the use of the 
        Maritime Administration for--
                    ``(A) acquisition, construction, or reconstruction 
                of vessels;
                    ``(B) construction-differential subsidies incident 
                to the construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning 
                of vessels;
                    ``(C) costs of national defense features;
                    ``(D) payments of obligations incurred for 
                operating-differential subsidies;
                    ``(E) expenses necessary for research and 
                development activities, including reimbursement of the 
                Vessel Operations Revolving Fund for losses resulting 
                from expenses of experimental vessel operations;
                    ``(F) the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund;
                    ``(G) National Defense Reserve Fleet expenses;
                    ``(H) expenses necessary to carry out part B of 
                subtitle V of title 46; and
                    ``(I) other operations and training expenses 
                related to the development of waterborne transportation 
                systems, the use of waterborne transportation systems, 
                and general administration.''.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.

    (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this division 
specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or 
activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount 
for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to 
the availability of appropriations.
    (b) Merit-based Decisions.--A decision to commit, obligate, or 
expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar 
amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
            (1) be based on merit-based selection procedures in 
        accordance with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 
        of title 10, United States Code, or on competitive procedures; 
        and
            (2) comply with other applicable provisions of law.
    (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An amount 
specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or 
reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by 
another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or 
reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not 
count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under 
section 1001 or section 1522 of this Act or any other provision of law, 
unless such transfer or reprogramming would move funds between 
appropriation accounts.
    (d) Applicability to Classified Annex.--This section applies to any 
classified annex that accompanies this Act.
    (e) Oral Written Communications.--No oral or written communication 
concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in this division 
shall supersede the requirements of this section.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
            SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT  (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2020         Senate
 Line                 Item                    Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        FIXED WING
    2   UTILITY F/W AIRCRAFT............          16,000               0
            Program zeroed out in FYDP..                       [-16,000]
    4   RQ-11 (RAVEN)...................          23,510          23,510
        ROTARY
    5   TACTICAL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT                12,100          12,100
         SYSTEM (TUAS)..................
    8   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIA REMAN...         806,849         806,849
    9   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIA REMAN AP         190,870         190,870
   10   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIB NEW                    0         105,000
         BUILD..........................
            Increase fielding for Active                       [105,000]
            and ARNG units..............
   12   UH-60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP)...       1,411,540       1,271,540
            Funding ahead of acquisition                      [-140,000]
            strategy....................
   13   UH-60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP) AP          79,572          79,572
   14   UH-60 BLACK HAWK L AND V MODELS.         169,290         204,290
            Increase fielding for ARNG                          [35,000]
            units.......................
   15   CH-47 HELICOPTER................         140,290         140,290
   16   CH-47 HELICOPTER AP.............          18,186          18,186
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   19   UNIVERSAL GROUND CONTROL                   2,090           2,090
         EQUIPMENT (UAS)................
   20   GRAY EAGLE MODS2................          14,699          14,699
   21   MULTI SENSOR ABN RECON (MIP)....          35,189          35,189
   22   AH-64 MODS......................          58,172          58,172
   23   CH-47 CARGO HELICOPTER MODS               11,785          11,785
         (MYP)..........................
   24   GRCS SEMA MODS (MIP)............           5,677           5,677
   25   ARL SEMA MODS (MIP).............           6,566           6,566
   26   EMARSS SEMA MODS (MIP)..........           3,859           3,859
   27   UTILITY/CARGO AIRPLANE MODS.....          15,476          15,476
   28   UTILITY HELICOPTER MODS.........           6,744           6,744
   29   NETWORK AND MISSION PLAN........         105,442         105,442
   30   COMMS, NAV SURVEILLANCE.........         164,315         164,315
   32   GATM ROLLUP.....................          30,966          30,966
   33   RQ-7 UAV MODS...................           8,983           8,983
   34   UAS MODS........................          10,205          10,205
        GROUND SUPPORT AVIONICS
   35   AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY EQUIPMENT          52,297          52,297
   36   SURVIVABILITY CM................           8,388           8,388
   37   CMWS............................          13,999          13,999
   38   COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES          168,784         168,784
         (CIRCM)........................
        OTHER SUPPORT
   39   AVIONICS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......           1,777           1,777
   40   COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT.........          18,624          18,624
   41   AIRCREW INTEGRATED SYSTEMS......          48,255          48,255
   42   AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL.............          32,738          32,738
   44   LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET...........           2,201           2,201
   45   LAUNCHER GUIDED MISSILE: LONGBOW             991             991
         HELLFIRE XM2...................
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY       3,696,429       3,680,429
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE SYSTEM
    1   SYSTEM INTEGRATION AND TEST                    0         113,857
         PROCUREMENT....................
            Transfer back to base                              [113,857]
            funding.....................
    2   M-SHORAD--PROCUREMENT...........               0         103,800
            Transfer back to base                              [103,800]
            funding.....................
    3   MSE MISSILE.....................               0         698,603
            Transfer back to base                              [698,603]
            funding.....................
    4   INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION                       0         239,237
         CAPABILITY INC 2-I.............
            Full funding of Iron Dome                          [229,900]
            battery.....................
            Transfer back to base                                [9,337]
            funding.....................
    5   THAAD...........................               0         425,900
            THAAD program transfer from                        [425,900]
            MDA.........................
        AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE SYSTEM
    6   HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY............               0         193,284
            Transfer back to base                              [193,284]
            funding.....................
    7   JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MSLS (JAGM).               0         233,353
            Transfer back to base                              [233,353]
            funding.....................
        ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE SYS
    8   JAVELIN (AAWS-M) SYSTEM SUMMARY.               0         138,405
            Transfer back to base                              [138,405]
            funding.....................
    9   TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY............               0         114,340
            Transfer back to base                              [114,340]
            funding.....................
   10   TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY AP.........               0          10,500
            Transfer back to base                               [10,500]
            funding.....................
   11   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)......               0         797,213
            Transfer back to base                              [797,213]
            funding.....................
   12   MLRS REDUCED RANGE PRACTICE                    0          27,555
         ROCKETS (RRPR).................
            Transfer back to base                               [27,555]
            funding.....................
   14   ARMY TACTICAL MSL SYS (ATACMS)--               0         209,842
         SYS SUM........................
            Transfer back to base                              [209,842]
            funding.....................
        MODIFICATIONS
   16   PATRIOT MODS....................               0         279,464
            Transfer back to base                              [279,464]
            funding.....................
   17   ATACMS MODS.....................               0          85,320
            Transfer back to base                               [85,320]
            funding.....................
   18   GMLRS MOD.......................               0           5,094
            Transfer back to base                                [5,094]
            funding.....................
   19   STINGER MODS....................               0          81,615
            Transfer back to base                               [81,615]
            funding.....................
   20   AVENGER MODS....................               0          14,107
            Transfer back to base                               [14,107]
            funding.....................
   21   ITAS/TOW MODS...................               0           3,469
            Transfer back to base                                [3,469]
            funding.....................
   22   MLRS MODS.......................               0          39,019
            Transfer back to base                               [39,019]
            funding.....................
   23   HIMARS MODIFICATIONS............               0          12,483
            Transfer back to base                               [12,483]
            funding.....................
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   24   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........               0          26,444
            Transfer back to base                               [26,444]
            funding.....................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   25   AIR DEFENSE TARGETS.............               0          10,593
            Transfer back to base                               [10,593]
            funding.....................
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY.               0       3,863,497
 
        PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY
        TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
    2   ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE VEHICLE            264,040         264,040
         (AMPV).........................
        MODIFICATION OF TRACKED COMBAT
         VEHICLES
    3   STRYKER (MOD)...................         144,387         393,587
            UPL Stryker lethality 30 mm                        [249,200]
            cannon......................
    4   STRYKER UPGRADE.................         550,000         550,000
    5   BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD)...........         638,781         598,781
            Excess to need due to                              [-40,000]
            termination of subprogram...
    6   M109 FOV MODIFICATIONS..........          25,756          25,756
    7   PALADIN INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT            553,425         553,425
         (PIM)..........................
    9   ASSAULT BRIDGE (MOD)............           2,821           2,821
   10   ASSAULT BREACHER VEHICLE........          31,697          31,697
   11   M88 FOV MODS....................           4,500           4,500
   12   JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE............         205,517         205,517
   13   M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD)............         348,800         348,800
   14   ABRAMS UPGRADE PROGRAM..........       1,752,784       1,717,784
            Early to need...............                       [-35,000]
        WEAPONS & OTHER COMBAT VEHICLES
   16   MULTI-ROLE ANTI-ARMOR ANTI-               19,420          19,420
         PERSONNEL WEAPON S.............
   17   GUN AUTOMATIC 30MM M230.........          20,000          20,000
   19   MORTAR SYSTEMS..................          14,907          14,907
   20   XM320 GRENADE LAUNCHER MODULE                191             191
         (GLM)..........................
   21   PRECISION SNIPER RIFLE..........           7,977           7,977
   22   COMPACT SEMI-AUTOMATIC SNIPER              9,860           9,860
         SYSTEM.........................
   23   CARBINE.........................          30,331          30,331
   24   SMALL ARMS--FIRE CONTROL........           8,060           8,060
   25   COMMON REMOTELY OPERATED WEAPONS          24,007          24,007
         STATION........................
   26   HANDGUN.........................           6,174           6,174
        MOD OF WEAPONS AND OTHER COMBAT
         VEH
   28   MK-19 GRENADE MACHINE GUN MODS..           3,737           3,737
   29   M777 MODS.......................           2,367           2,367
   30   M4 CARBINE MODS.................          17,595          17,595
   33   M240 MEDIUM MACHINE GUN MODS....           8,000           8,000
   34   SNIPER RIFLES MODIFICATIONS.....           2,426           2,426
   35   M119 MODIFICATIONS..............           6,269           6,269
   36   MORTAR MODIFICATION.............           1,693           1,693
   37   MODIFICATIONS LESS THAN $5.0M              4,327           4,327
         (WOCV-WTCV)....................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   38   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (WOCV-               3,066           3,066
         WTCV)..........................
   39   PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT (WOCV-             2,651           2,651
         WTCV)..........................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY       4,715,566       4,889,766
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
        SMALL/MEDIUM CAL AMMUNITION
    1   CTG, 5.56MM, ALL TYPES..........               0          68,949
            Transfer back to base                               [68,949]
            funding.....................
    2   CTG, 7.62MM, ALL TYPES..........               0         114,228
            Transfer back to base                              [114,228]
            funding.....................
    3   CTG, HANDGUN, ALL TYPES.........               0          17,807
            Transfer back to base                               [17,807]
            funding.....................
    4   CTG, .50 CAL, ALL TYPES.........               0          63,966
            Transfer back to base                               [63,966]
            funding.....................
    5   CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES............               0          35,920
            Transfer back to base                               [35,920]
            funding.....................
    6   CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES............               0           8,990
            Transfer back to base                                [8,990]
            funding.....................
    7   CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES............               0          68,813
            Transfer back to base                               [68,813]
            funding.....................
    8   CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES............               0         103,952
            Transfer back to base                              [103,952]
            funding.....................
        MORTAR AMMUNITION
    9   60MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES..........               0          50,580
            Transfer back to base                               [50,580]
            funding.....................
   10   81MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES..........               0          59,373
            Transfer back to base                               [59,373]
            funding.....................
   11   120MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES.........               0         125,452
            Transfer back to base                              [125,452]
            funding.....................
        TANK AMMUNITION
   12   CARTRIDGES, TANK, 105MM AND                    0         171,284
         120MM, ALL TYPES...............
            Transfer back to base                              [171,284]
            funding.....................
        ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
   13   ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES, 75MM &                   0          44,675
         105MM, ALL TYPES...............
            Transfer back to base                               [44,675]
            funding.....................
   14   ARTILLERY PROJECTILE, 155MM, ALL               0         266,037
         TYPES..........................
            Transfer back to base                              [266,037]
            funding.....................
   15   PROJ 155MM EXTENDED RANGE M982..               0          57,434
            Transfer back to base                               [57,434]
            funding.....................
   16   ARTILLERY PROPELLANTS, FUZES AND               0         271,602
         PRIMERS, ALL...................
            Transfer back to base                              [271,602]
            funding.....................
        MINES
   17   MINES & CLEARING CHARGES, ALL                  0          55,433
         TYPES..........................
            Transfer back to base                               [55,433]
            funding.....................
        ROCKETS
   18   SHOULDER LAUNCHED MUNITIONS, ALL               0          74,878
         TYPES..........................
            Transfer back to base                               [74,878]
            funding.....................
   19   ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL TYPES.....               0         175,994
            Transfer back to base                              [175,994]
            funding.....................
        OTHER AMMUNITION
   20   CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES..............               0           7,595
            Transfer back to base                                [7,595]
            funding.....................
   21   DEMOLITION MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.               0          51,651
            Transfer back to base                               [51,651]
            funding.....................
   22   GRENADES, ALL TYPES.............               0          40,592
            Transfer back to base                               [40,592]
            funding.....................
   23   SIGNALS, ALL TYPES..............               0          18,609
            Transfer back to base                               [18,609]
            funding.....................
   24   SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES...........               0          16,054
            Transfer back to base                               [16,054]
            funding.....................
        MISCELLANEOUS
   25   AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL TYPES......               0           5,261
            Transfer back to base                                [5,261]
            funding.....................
   26   NON-LETHAL AMMUNITION, ALL TYPES               0             715
            Transfer back to base                                  [715]
            funding.....................
   27   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION                     0           9,213
         (AMMO).........................
            Transfer back to base                                [9,213]
            funding.....................
   28   AMMUNITION PECULIAR EQUIPMENT...               0          10,044
            Transfer back to base                               [10,044]
            funding.....................
   29   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION               0          18,492
         (AMMO).........................
            Transfer back to base                               [18,492]
            funding.....................
   30   CLOSEOUT LIABILITIES............               0              99
            Transfer back to base                                   [99]
            funding.....................
        PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT
   31   INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...........               0         474,511
            Transfer back to base                              [474,511]
            funding.....................
   32   CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS                         0         202,512
         DEMILITARIZATION...............
            Transfer back to base                              [202,512]
            funding.....................
   33   ARMS INITIATIVE.................               0           3,833
            Transfer back to base                                [3,833]
            funding.....................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,               0       2,694,548
         ARMY...........................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        TACTICAL VEHICLES
    1   TACTICAL TRAILERS/DOLLY SETS....          12,993          12,993
    2   SEMITRAILERS, FLATBED:..........         102,386         102,386
    3   AMBULANCE, 4 LITTER, 5/4 TON,            127,271         127,271
         4X4............................
    4   GROUND MOBILITY VEHICLES (GMV)..          37,038          37,038
    6   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE....         996,007         956,507
            Army requested realignment..                        [-4,500]
            Early to need...............                       [-35,000]
    7   TRUCK, DUMP, 20T (CCE)..........          10,838          10,838
    8   FAMILY OF MEDIUM TACTICAL VEH             72,057          72,057
         (FMTV).........................
    9   FIRETRUCKS & ASSOCIATED                   28,048          28,048
         FIREFIGHTING EQUIP.............
   10   FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL                   9,969           9,969
         VEHICLES (FHTV)................
   11   PLS ESP.........................           6,280           6,280
   12   HVY EXPANDED MOBILE TACTICAL              30,841          30,841
         TRUCK EXT SERV.................
   13   HMMWV RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM..           5,734           5,734
   14   TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE                  45,113          45,113
         PROTECTION KITS................
   15   MODIFICATION OF IN SVC EQUIP....          58,946          58,946
        NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
   17   HEAVY ARMORED VEHICLE...........             791             791
   18   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....           1,416           1,416
   19   NONTACTICAL VEHICLES, OTHER.....          29,891          29,891
        COMM--JOINT COMMUNICATIONS
   21   SIGNAL MODERNIZATION PROGRAM....         153,933         153,933
   22   TACTICAL NETWORK TECHNOLOGY MOD          387,439         387,439
         IN SVC.........................
   23   SITUATION INFORMATION TRANSPORT.          46,693          46,693
   25   JCSE EQUIPMENT (USRDECOM).......           5,075           5,075
        COMM--SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
   28   DEFENSE ENTERPRISE WIDEBAND              101,189         101,189
         SATCOM SYSTEMS.................
   29   TRANSPORTABLE TACTICAL COMMAND            77,141          77,141
         COMMUNICATIONS.................
   30   SHF TERM........................          16,054          16,054
   31   ASSURED POSITIONING, NAVIGATION           41,074          41,074
         AND TIMING.....................
   32   SMART-T (SPACE).................          10,515          10,515
   33   GLOBAL BRDCST SVC--GBS..........          11,800          11,800
   34   ENROUTE MISSION COMMAND (EMC)...           8,609           8,609
        COMM--C3 SYSTEM
   38   COE TACTICAL SERVER                       77,533          77,533
         INFRASTRUCTURE (TSI)...........
        COMM--COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS
   39   HANDHELD MANPACK SMALL FORM FIT          468,026         468,026
         (HMS)..........................
   40   RADIO TERMINAL SET, MIDS LVT(2).          23,778          23,778
   44   SPIDER FAMILY OF NETWORKED                10,930          10,930
         MUNITIONS INCR.................
   46   UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE...........           9,291           9,291
   47   COTS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT...          55,630          55,630
   48   FAMILY OF MED COMM FOR COMBAT             16,590          16,590
         CASUALTY CARE..................
   49   ARMY COMMUNICATIONS &                     43,457          43,457
         ELECTRONICS....................
        COMM--INTELLIGENCE COMM
   51   CI AUTOMATION ARCHITECTURE (MIP)          10,470          10,470
   52   DEFENSE MILITARY DECEPTION                 3,704           3,704
         INITIATIVE.....................
        INFORMATION SECURITY
   53   FAMILY OF BIOMETRICS............           1,000           1,000
   54   INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY                3,600           3,600
         PROGRAM-ISSP...................
   55   COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC)         160,899         160,899
   56   DEFENSIVE CYBER OPERATIONS......          61,962          61,962
   57   INSIDER THREAT PROGRAM--UNIT                 756             756
         ACTIVITY MONITO................
   58   PERSISTENT CYBER TRAINING                  3,000           3,000
         ENVIRONMENT....................
        COMM--LONG HAUL COMMUNICATIONS
   59   BASE SUPPORT COMMUNICATIONS.....          31,770          31,770
        COMM--BASE COMMUNICATIONS
   60   INFORMATION SYSTEMS.............         159,009         159,009
   61   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT                       4,854           4,854
         MODERNIZATION PROGRAM..........
   62   HOME STATION MISSION COMMAND              47,174          47,174
         CENTERS (HSMCC)................
   63   INSTALLATION INFO INFRASTRUCTURE         297,994         297,994
         MOD PROGRAM....................
        ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT REL ACT
         (TIARA)
   66   JTT/CIBS-M (MIP)................           7,686           7,686
   68   DCGS-A (MIP)....................         180,350         180,350
   70   TROJAN (MIP)....................          17,368          17,368
   71   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (INTEL SPT)           59,052          59,052
         (MIP)..........................
        ELECT EQUIP--ELECTRONIC WARFARE
         (EW)
   77   LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER MORTAR RADAR           5,400           5,400
   78   EW PLANNING & MANAGEMENT TOOLS             7,568           7,568
         (EWPMT)........................
   79   AIR VIGILANCE (AV) (MIP)........           8,953           8,953
   81   MULTI-FUNCTION ELECTRONIC                  6,420           6,420
         WARFARE (MFEW) SYST............
   83   COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/SECURITY                 501             501
         COUNTERMEASURES................
   84   CI MODERNIZATION (MIP)..........             121             121
        ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL SURV. (TAC
         SURV)
   85   SENTINEL MODS...................         115,210         115,210
   86   NIGHT VISION DEVICES............         236,604         236,604
   88   SMALL TACTICAL OPTICAL RIFLE              22,623          22,623
         MOUNTED MLRF...................
   90   INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION FAMILY           29,127          29,127
         OF SYSTEMS.....................
   91   FAMILY OF WEAPON SIGHTS (FWS)...         120,883         120,883
   94   JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--PLATFORM           265,667         265,667
         (JBC-P)........................
   95   JOINT EFFECTS TARGETING SYSTEM            69,720          69,720
         (JETS).........................
   96   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (LLDR)......           6,044           6,044
   97   COMPUTER BALLISTICS: LHMBC XM32.           3,268           3,268
   98   MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM......          13,199          13,199
   99   MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEMS               10,000          10,000
         MODIFICATIONS..................
  100   COUNTERFIRE RADARS..............          16,416          78,916
            UPL Retrofits systems with                          [62,500]
            GaN tech for ER.............
        ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL C2 SYSTEMS
  102   FIRE SUPPORT C2 FAMILY..........          13,197          13,197
  103   AIR & MSL DEFENSE PLANNING &              24,730          24,730
         CONTROL SYS....................
  104   IAMD BATTLE COMMAND SYSTEM......          29,629          29,629
  105   LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE SUPPORT                6,774           6,774
         (LCSS).........................
  106   NETWORK MANAGEMENT                        24,448          24,448
         INITIALIZATION AND SERVICE.....
  107   MANEUVER CONTROL SYSTEM (MCS)...             260             260
  108   GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM-             17,962          17,962
         ARMY (GCSS-A)..................
  109   INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY              18,674               0
         SYSTEM-ARMY (IPP...............
            Poor business process                              [-18,674]
            reengineering...............
  110   RECONNAISSANCE AND SURVEYING              11,000          11,000
         INSTRUMENT SET.................
  111   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT (ENFIRE)           7,317           7,317
        ELECT EQUIP--AUTOMATION
  112   ARMY TRAINING MODERNIZATION.....          14,578          14,578
  113   AUTOMATED DATA PROCESSING EQUIP.         139,342         147,342
            JIOCEUR at RAF Molesworth...                         [8,000]
  114   GENERAL FUND ENTERPRISE BUSINESS          15,802          15,802
         SYSTEMS FAM....................
  115   HIGH PERF COMPUTING MOD PGM               67,610          67,610
         (HPCMP)........................
  116   CONTRACT WRITING SYSTEM.........          15,000               0
            Program duplication.........                       [-15,000]
  117   CSS COMMUNICATIONS..............          24,700          24,700
  118   RESERVE COMPONENT AUTOMATION SYS          27,879          27,879
         (RCAS).........................
        ELECT EQUIP--AUDIO VISUAL SYS (A/
         V)
  120   ITEMS LESS THAN $5M (SURVEYING             5,000           5,000
         EQUIPMENT).....................
        ELECT EQUIP--SUPPORT
  122   BCT EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES.......          22,302          22,302
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
  999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............           3,710          11,910
            Transfer back to base                                [8,200]
            funding.....................
        CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE EQUIPMENT
  126   CBRN DEFENSE....................          25,828          25,828
  127   SMOKE & OBSCURANT FAMILY: SOF              5,050           5,050
         (NON AAO ITEM).................
        BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
  128   TACTICAL BRIDGING...............          59,821          59,821
  129   TACTICAL BRIDGE, FLOAT-RIBBON...          57,661          57,661
  130   BRIDGE SUPPLEMENTAL SET.........          17,966          17,966
  131   COMMON BRIDGE TRANSPORTER (CBT)           43,155          43,155
         RECAP..........................
        ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION)
         EQUIPMENT
  132   HANDHELD STANDOFF MINEFIELD                7,570           7,570
         DETECTION SYS-HST..............
  133   GRND STANDOFF MINE DETECTN SYSM           37,025          37,025
         (GSTAMIDS).....................
  135   HUSKY MOUNTED DETECTION SYSTEM            83,082          83,082
         (HMDS).........................
  136   ROBOTIC COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM              2,000           2,000
         (RCSS).........................
  137   EOD ROBOTICS SYSTEMS                      23,115          23,115
         RECAPITALIZATION...............
  138   ROBOTICS AND APPLIQUE SYSTEMS...         101,056         113,856
            Army requested realignment..                        [12,800]
  140   RENDER SAFE SETS KITS OUTFITS...          18,684          18,684
  142   FAMILY OF BOATS AND MOTORS......           8,245           8,245
        COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  143   HEATERS AND ECU'S...............           7,336           7,336
  145   PERSONNEL RECOVERY SUPPORT                 4,281           4,281
         SYSTEM (PRSS)..................
  146   GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM...........         111,955         111,955
  147   MOBILE SOLDIER POWER............          31,364          31,364
  149   FIELD FEEDING EQUIPMENT.........           1,673           1,673
  150   CARGO AERIAL DEL & PERSONNEL              43,622          43,622
         PARACHUTE SYSTEM...............
  151   FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT AND                 11,451          11,451
         CONSTRUCTION SETS..............
  152   ITEMS LESS THAN $5M (ENG SPT)...           5,167           5,167
        PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
  154   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, PETROLEUM           74,867          74,867
         & WATER........................
        MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
  155   COMBAT SUPPORT MEDICAL..........          68,225          68,225
        MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
  156   MOBILE MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT              55,053          55,053
         SYSTEMS........................
  157   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (MAINT EQ)           5,608           5,608
        CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
  161   HYDRAULIC EXCAVATOR.............             500             500
  162   TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED...........           4,835           4,835
  163   ALL TERRAIN CRANES..............          23,936          23,936
  164   HIGH MOBILITY ENGINEER EXCAVATOR          27,188          27,188
         (HMEE).........................
  166   CONST EQUIP ESP.................          34,790          34,790
  167   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (CONST               4,381           4,381
         EQUIP).........................
        RAIL FLOAT CONTAINERIZATION
         EQUIPMENT
  168   ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP.............          35,194          35,194
  169   MANEUVER SUPPORT VESSEL (MSV)...          14,185          14,185
  170   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (FLOAT/              6,920           6,920
         RAIL)..........................
        GENERATORS
  171   GENERATORS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIP.          58,566          58,566
  172   TACTICAL ELECTRIC POWER                   14,814          14,814
         RECAPITALIZATION...............
        MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT
  173   FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS.............          14,864          14,864
        TRAINING EQUIPMENT
  174   COMBAT TRAINING CENTERS SUPPORT.         123,411         123,411
  175   TRAINING DEVICES, NONSYSTEM.....         220,707         220,707
  176   SYNTHETIC TRAINING ENVIRONMENT            20,749          20,749
         (STE)..........................
  178   AVIATION COMBINED ARMS TACTICAL            4,840           4,840
         TRAINER........................
  179   GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN SUPPORT OF           15,463          15,463
         ARMY TRAINING..................
        TEST MEASURE AND DIG EQUIPMENT
         (TMD)
  180   CALIBRATION SETS EQUIPMENT......           3,030           3,030
  181   INTEGRATED FAMILY OF TEST                 76,980          76,980
         EQUIPMENT (IFTE)...............
  182   TEST EQUIPMENT MODERNIZATION              16,415          16,415
         (TEMOD)........................
        OTHER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  184   RAPID EQUIPPING SOLDIER SUPPORT            9,877           9,877
         EQUIPMENT......................
  185   PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEMS (OPA3)          82,158          82,158
  186   BASE LEVEL COMMON EQUIPMENT.....          15,340          15,340
  187   MODIFICATION OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT          50,458          50,458
         (OPA-3)........................
  189   BUILDING, PRE-FAB, RELOCATABLE..          14,400          14,400
  190   SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR USER                 9,821           9,821
         TESTING........................
        OPA2
  192   INITIAL SPARES--C&E.............           9,757           9,757
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY...       7,443,101       7,461,427
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        COMBAT AIRCRAFT
    1   F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER) HORNET......       1,748,934       1,748,934
    2   F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER) HORNET AP...          55,128          55,128
    3   JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV.........       2,272,301       2,487,301
            UPL USMC additional                                [215,000]
            quantities..................
    4   JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV AP......         339,053         339,053
    5   JSF STOVL.......................       1,342,035       1,591,135
            UPL USMC additional                                [249,100]
            quantities..................
    6   JSF STOVL AP....................         291,804         291,804
    7   CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT).............         807,876         807,876
    8   CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT) AP..........         215,014         215,014
    9   V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT)..............         966,666         966,666
   10   V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT) AP...........          27,104          27,104
   11   H-1 UPGRADES (UH-1Y/AH-1Z)......          62,003          62,003
   13   MH-60R (MYP)....................             894             894
   14   P-8A POSEIDON...................       1,206,701       1,206,701
   16   E-2D ADV HAWKEYE................         744,484         744,484
   17   E-2D ADV HAWKEYE AP.............         190,204         190,204
        TRAINER AIRCRAFT
   19   ADVANCED HELICOPTER TRAINING             261,160         261,160
         SYSTEM.........................
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   20   KC-130J.........................         240,840         240,840
   21   KC-130J AP......................          66,061          66,061
   22   F-5.............................          39,676               0
            Program cancellation........                       [-39,676]
   23   MQ-4 TRITON.....................         473,134         473,134
   24   MQ-4 TRITON AP..................          20,139          20,139
   25   MQ-8 UAV........................          44,957          44,957
   26   STUASL0 UAV.....................          43,819          43,819
   28   VH-92A EXECUTIVE HELO...........         658,067         658,067
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   29   AEA SYSTEMS.....................          44,470          44,470
   30   AV-8 SERIES.....................          39,472          39,472
   31   ADVERSARY.......................           3,415           3,415
   32   F-18 SERIES.....................       1,207,089       1,207,089
   33   H-53 SERIES.....................          68,385          68,385
   34   MH-60 SERIES....................         149,797         149,797
   35   H-1 SERIES......................         114,059         114,059
   36   EP-3 SERIES.....................           8,655           8,655
   38   E-2 SERIES......................         117,059         117,059
   39   TRAINER A/C SERIES..............           5,616           5,616
   40   C-2A............................          15,747          15,747
   41   C-130 SERIES....................         122,671         122,671
   42   FEWSG...........................             509             509
   43   CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C SERIES......           8,767           8,767
   44   E-6 SERIES......................         169,827         169,827
   45   EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS SERIES....           8,933           8,933
   47   T-45 SERIES.....................         186,022         186,022
   48   POWER PLANT CHANGES.............          16,136          16,136
   49   JPATS SERIES....................          21,824          21,824
   50   AVIATION LIFE SUPPORT MODS......          39,762          39,762
   51   COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT............         162,839         162,839
   52   COMMON AVIONICS CHANGES.........         102,107         102,107
   53   COMMON DEFENSIVE WEAPON SYSTEM..           2,100           2,100
   54   ID SYSTEMS......................          41,437          41,437
   55   P-8 SERIES......................         107,539         107,539
   56   MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION...........          26,536          26,536
   57   MQ-8 SERIES.....................          34,686          34,686
   58   V-22 (TILT/ROTOR ACFT) OSPREY...         325,367         325,367
   59   NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ)....           6,223           6,223
   60   F-35 STOVL SERIES...............          65,585          65,585
   61   F-35 CV SERIES..................          15,358          15,358
   62   QRC.............................         165,016         165,016
   63   MQ-4 SERIES.....................          27,994          27,994
   64   RQ-21 SERIES....................          66,282          66,282
        AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   67   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........       2,166,788       2,235,088
            F-35B spares................                        [14,900]
            F-35C spares................                        [24,600]
            UPL F-35B engine............                        [28,800]
        AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIP &
         FACILITIES
   68   COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT.........         491,025         491,025
   69   AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES..          71,335          71,335
   70   WAR CONSUMABLES.................          41,086          41,086
   72   SPECIAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......         135,740         135,740
   73   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION             892             892
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY      18,522,204      19,014,928
 
        WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
    1   TRIDENT II MODS.................               0       1,177,251
            Transfer back to base                            [1,177,251]
            funding.....................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
    2   MISSILE INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...               0           7,142
            Transfer back to base                                [7,142]
            funding.....................
        STRATEGIC MISSILES
    3   TOMAHAWK........................               0         330,430
            Transfer back to base                              [386,730]
            funding.....................
            Unjustified tooling and                            [-56,300]
            facilitization costs........
        TACTICAL MISSILES
    4   AMRAAM..........................               0         224,502
            Transfer back to base                              [224,502]
            funding.....................
    5   SIDEWINDER......................               0         119,456
            Transfer back to base                              [119,456]
            funding.....................
    7   STANDARD MISSILE................               0         404,523
            Transfer back to base                              [404,523]
            funding.....................
    8   STANDARD MISSILE AP.............               0          96,085
            Transfer back to base                               [96,085]
            funding.....................
    9   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II..........               0         118,466
            Transfer back to base                              [118,466]
            funding.....................
   10   RAM.............................               0         106,765
            Transfer back to base                              [106,765]
            funding.....................
   12   HELLFIRE........................               0           1,525
            Transfer back to base                                [1,525]
            funding.....................
   15   AERIAL TARGETS..................               0         145,880
            Transfer back to base                              [145,880]
            funding.....................
   16   DRONES AND DECOYS...............               0          20,000
            Transfer back to base                               [20,000]
            funding.....................
   17   OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT...........               0           3,388
            Transfer back to base                                [3,388]
            funding.....................
   18   LRASM...........................               0         143,200
            Transfer back to base                              [143,200]
            funding.....................
   19   LCS OTH MISSILE.................               0          18,137
            Transfer back to base                               [38,137]
            funding.....................
            Unjustified accelerated                            [-20,000]
            acquisition strategy........
        MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
   20   ESSM............................               0         128,059
            Transfer back to base                              [128,059]
            funding.....................
   21   HARPOON MODS....................               0          25,447
            Transfer back to base                               [25,447]
            funding.....................
   22   HARM MODS.......................               0         183,740
            Transfer back to base                              [183,740]
            funding.....................
   23   STANDARD MISSILES MODS..........               0          22,500
            Transfer back to base                               [22,500]
            funding.....................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   24   WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...               0           1,958
            Transfer back to base                                [1,958]
            funding.....................
   25   FLEET SATELLITE COMM FOLLOW-ON..               0          67,380
            Transfer back to base                               [67,380]
            funding.....................
        ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   27   ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......               0         109,427
            Transfer back to base                              [109,427]
            funding.....................
        TORPEDOES AND RELATED EQUIP
   28   SSTD............................               0           5,561
            Transfer back to base                                [5,561]
            funding.....................
   29   MK-48 TORPEDO...................               0         130,000
            Transfer back to base                              [114,000]
            funding.....................
            UPL additional quantites....                        [16,000]
   30   ASW TARGETS.....................               0          15,095
            Transfer back to base                               [15,095]
            funding.....................
        MOD OF TORPEDOES AND RELATED
         EQUIP
   31   MK-54 TORPEDO MODS..............               0         119,453
            Transfer back to base                              [119,453]
            funding.....................
   32   MK-48 TORPEDO ADCAP MODS........               0          39,508
            Transfer back to base                               [39,508]
            funding.....................
   33   QUICKSTRIKE MINE................               0           5,183
            Transfer back to base                                [5,183]
            funding.....................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   34   TORPEDO SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......               0          79,028
            Transfer back to base                               [79,028]
            funding.....................
   35   ASW RANGE SUPPORT...............               0           3,890
            Transfer back to base                                [3,890]
            funding.....................
        DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION
   36   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION               0           3,803
            Transfer back to base                                [3,803]
            funding.....................
        GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
   37   SMALL ARMS AND WEAPONS..........               0          14,797
            Transfer back to base                               [14,797]
            funding.....................
        MODIFICATION OF GUNS AND GUN
         MOUNTS
   38   CIWS MODS.......................               0          44,126
            Transfer back to base                               [44,126]
            funding.....................
   39   COAST GUARD WEAPONS.............               0          44,980
            Transfer back to base                               [44,980]
            funding.....................
   40   GUN MOUNT MODS..................               0          66,376
            Transfer back to base                               [66,376]
            funding.....................
   41   LCS MODULE WEAPONS..............               0          14,585
            Transfer back to base                               [14,585]
            funding.....................
   43   AIRBORNE MINE NEUTRALIZATION                   0           7,160
         SYSTEMS........................
            Transfer back to base                                [7,160]
            funding.....................
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   45   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........               0         126,138
            Transfer back to base                              [126,138]
            funding.....................
        TOTAL WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY.               0       4,174,944
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC
        NAVY AMMUNITION
    1   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS...........               0          36,028
            Transfer back to base                               [36,028]
            funding.....................
    2   JDAM............................               0          70,413
            Transfer back to base                               [70,413]
            funding.....................
    3   AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL TYPES.....               0          31,756
            Transfer back to base                               [31,756]
            funding.....................
    4   MACHINE GUN AMMUNITION..........               0           4,793
            Transfer back to base                                [4,793]
            funding.....................
    5   PRACTICE BOMBS..................               0          34,708
            Transfer back to base                               [34,708]
            funding.....................
    6   CARTRIDGES & CART ACTUATED                     0          45,738
         DEVICES........................
            Transfer back to base                               [45,738]
            funding.....................
    7   AIR EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES..               0          77,301
            Transfer back to base                               [77,301]
            funding.....................
    8   JATOS...........................               0           7,262
            Transfer back to base                                [7,262]
            funding.....................
    9   5 INCH/54 GUN AMMUNITION........               0          22,594
            Transfer back to base                               [22,594]
            funding.....................
   10   INTERMEDIATE CALIBER GUN                       0          37,193
         AMMUNITION.....................
            Transfer back to base                               [37,193]
            funding.....................
   11   OTHER SHIP GUN AMMUNITION.......               0          39,491
            Transfer back to base                               [39,491]
            funding.....................
   12   SMALL ARMS & LANDING PARTY AMMO.               0          47,896
            Transfer back to base                               [47,896]
            funding.....................
   13   PYROTECHNIC AND DEMOLITION......               0          10,621
            Transfer back to base                               [10,621]
            funding.....................
   15   AMMUNITION LESS THAN $5 MILLION.               0           2,386
            Transfer back to base                                [2,386]
            funding.....................
        MARINE CORPS AMMUNITION
   16   MORTARS.........................               0          55,543
            Transfer back to base                               [55,543]
            funding.....................
   17   DIRECT SUPPORT MUNITIONS........               0         131,765
            Transfer back to base                              [131,765]
            funding.....................
   18   INFANTRY WEAPONS AMMUNITION.....               0          78,056
            Transfer back to base                               [78,056]
            funding.....................
   19   COMBAT SUPPORT MUNITIONS........               0          40,048
            Transfer back to base                               [40,048]
            funding.....................
   20   AMMO MODERNIZATION..............               0          14,325
            Transfer back to base                               [14,325]
            funding.....................
   21   ARTILLERY MUNITIONS.............               0         188,876
            Transfer back to base                              [188,876]
            funding.....................
   22   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......               0           4,521
            Transfer back to base                                [4,521]
            funding.....................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY                0         981,314
         & MC...........................
 
        SHIPBUILDING AND CONVERSION,
         NAVY
        FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE SHIPS
    1   OHIO REPLACEMENT SUBMARINE AP...       1,698,907       1,823,907
            Submarine industrial base                          [125,000]
            expansion...................
        OTHER WARSHIPS
    2   CARRIER REPLACEMENT PROGRAM.....       2,347,000       2,347,000
    3   VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE........       7,155,946       4,691,946
            Restore VPM on SSN-804......                       [522,100]
            SSN-812 full funding early                      [-2,986,100]
            to need.....................
    4   VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE AP.....       2,769,552       4,269,552
            Future Virginia-class                            [1,500,000]
            submarine(s) with VPM.......
    5   CVN REFUELING OVERHAULS.........         647,926         597,926
            CVN-74 RCOH unjustified cost                       [-50,000]
            growth......................
    6   CVN REFUELING OVERHAULS AP......               0          16,900
            Restore CVN-75 RCOH.........                        [16,900]
    7   DDG 1000........................         155,944         155,944
    8   DDG-51..........................       5,099,295       5,079,295
            Available prior year funds..                       [-20,000]
    9   DDG-51 AP.......................         224,028         484,028
            Accelerate LLTM for FY21                           [260,000]
            Flight III destroyers.......
   11   FFG-FRIGATE.....................       1,281,177       1,281,177
        AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
   12   LPD FLIGHT II...................               0         525,000
            LPD-31 program increase.....                       [277,900]
            Transfer from SCN line 13...                       [247,100]
   13   LPD FLIGHT II AP................         247,100               0
            Transfer to SCN line 12.....                      [-247,100]
   15   LHA REPLACEMENT.................               0         650,000
            LHA-9 program increase......                       [650,000]
        AUXILIARIES, CRAFT AND PRIOR YR
         PROGRAM COST
   18   TAO FLEET OILER.................         981,215         981,215
   19   TAO FLEET OILER AP..............          73,000          73,000
   20   TOWING, SALVAGE, AND RESCUE SHIP         150,282         150,282
         (ATS)..........................
   22   LCU 1700........................          85,670          85,670
   23   OUTFITTING......................         754,679         704,679
            Early to need and                                  [-50,000]
            unjustified cost growth.....
   25   SERVICE CRAFT...................          56,289          81,789
            Accelerate YP-703 Flight II.                        [25,500]
   28   COMPLETION OF PY SHIPBUILDING             55,700         104,700
         PROGRAMS.......................
            UPL EPF-14 conversion.......                        [49,000]
   29   SHIP TO SHORE CONNECTOR AP......               0          40,400
            Program increase............                        [40,400]
        TOTAL SHIPBUILDING AND                23,783,710      24,144,410
         CONVERSION, NAVY...............
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        SHIP PROPULSION EQUIPMENT
    1   SURFACE POWER EQUIPMENT.........          14,490          14,490
        GENERATORS
    2   SURFACE COMBATANT HM&E..........          31,583          50,583
            UPL DDG-51 class HM&E                               [19,000]
            upgrades....................
        NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
    3   OTHER NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT......          77,404          77,404
        OTHER SHIPBOARD EQUIPMENT
    4   SUB PERISCOPE, IMAGING AND SUPT          160,803         160,803
         EQUIP PROG.....................
    5   DDG MOD.........................         566,140         566,140
    6   FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT..........          18,223          18,223
    7   COMMAND AND CONTROL SWITCHBOARD.           2,086           2,086
    8   LHA/LHD MIDLIFE.................          95,651          95,651
    9   POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT.....          23,910          23,910
   10   SUBMARINE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....          44,895          44,895
   11   VIRGINIA CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT          28,465          28,465
   12   LCS CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....          19,426          19,426
   13   SUBMARINE BATTERIES.............          26,290          26,290
   14   LPD CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....          46,945          46,945
   15   DDG 1000 CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT           9,930           9,930
   16   STRATEGIC PLATFORM SUPPORT EQUIP          14,331          14,331
   17   DSSP EQUIPMENT..................           2,909           2,909
   18   CG MODERNIZATION................         193,990         193,990
   19   LCAC............................           3,392           3,392
   20   UNDERWATER EOD PROGRAMS.........          71,240          82,240
            Program increase for four                           [11,000]
            ExMCM companies.............
   21   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......         102,543         102,543
   22   CHEMICAL WARFARE DETECTORS......           2,961           2,961
   23   SUBMARINE LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEM...           6,635           6,635
        REACTOR PLANT EQUIPMENT
   24   REACTOR POWER UNITS.............           5,340           5,340
   25   REACTOR COMPONENTS..............         465,726         465,726
        OCEAN ENGINEERING
   26   DIVING AND SALVAGE EQUIPMENT....          11,854          11,854
        SMALL BOATS
   27   STANDARD BOATS..................          79,102          79,102
        PRODUCTION FACILITIES EQUIPMENT
   28   OPERATING FORCES IPE............         202,238         202,238
        OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
   29   LCS COMMON MISSION MODULES                51,553          51,553
         EQUIPMENT......................
   30   LCS MCM MISSION MODULES.........         197,129          67,329
            Procurement ahead of                              [-129,800]
            satisfactory testing........
   31   LCS ASW MISSION MODULES.........          27,754          27,754
   32   LCS SUW MISSION MODULES.........          26,566          26,566
   33   LCS IN-SERVICE MODERNIZATION....          84,972          84,972
   34   SMALL & MEDIUM UUV..............          40,547          10,647
            Knifefish procurement ahead                        [-29,900]
            of satisfactory testing.....
        LOGISTIC SUPPORT
   35   LSD MIDLIFE & MODERNIZATION.....          40,269          40,269
        SHIP SONARS
   36   SPQ-9B RADAR....................          26,195          26,195
   37   AN/SQQ-89 SURF ASW COMBAT SYSTEM         125,237         125,237
   38   SSN ACOUSTIC EQUIPMENT..........         366,968         366,968
   39   UNDERSEA WARFARE SUPPORT                   8,967           8,967
         EQUIPMENT......................
        ASW ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   40   SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC WARFARE                23,545          23,545
         SYSTEM.........................
   41   SSTD............................          12,439          12,439
   42   FIXED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM.......         128,441         128,441
   43   SURTASS.........................          21,923          21,923
        ELECTRONIC WARFARE EQUIPMENT
   44   AN/SLQ-32.......................         420,154         358,154
            Early to need...............                       [-62,000]
        RECONNAISSANCE EQUIPMENT
   45   SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT............         194,758         202,758
            UPL SSEE expansion on Flight                         [8,000]
            I DDGs......................
   46   AUTOMATED IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM            5,368           5,368
         (AIS)..........................
        OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   47   COOPERATIVE ENGAGEMENT                    35,128          35,128
         CAPABILITY.....................
   48   NAVAL TACTICAL COMMAND SUPPORT            15,154          15,154
         SYSTEM (NTCSS).................
   49   ATDLS...........................          52,753          52,753
   50   NAVY COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM            3,390           3,390
         (NCCS).........................
   51   MINESWEEPING SYSTEM REPLACEMENT.          19,448          19,448
   52   SHALLOW WATER MCM...............           8,730           8,730
   53   NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS (SPACE)...          32,674          32,674
   54   AMERICAN FORCES RADIO AND TV               2,617           2,617
         SERVICE........................
   55   STRATEGIC PLATFORM SUPPORT EQUIP           7,973           7,973
        AVIATION ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   56   ASHORE ATC EQUIPMENT............          72,406          72,406
   57   AFLOAT ATC EQUIPMENT............          67,410          67,410
   58   ID SYSTEMS......................          26,059          26,059
   59   JOINT PRECISION APPROACH AND              92,695          92,695
         LANDING SYSTEM (...............
   60   NAVAL MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS..          15,296          15,296
        OTHER SHORE ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   61   TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I SYSTEMS.....          36,226          36,226
   62   DCGS-N..........................          21,788          21,788
   63   CANES...........................         426,654         426,654
   64   RADIAC..........................           6,450           6,450
   65   CANES-INTELL....................          52,713          52,713
   66   GPETE...........................          13,028          13,028
   67   MASF............................           5,193           5,193
   68   INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM TEST                   6,028           6,028
         FACILITY.......................
   69   EMI CONTROL INSTRUMENTATION.....           4,209           4,209
   70   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......         168,436         144,636
            NGSSR early to need.........                       [-23,800]
        SHIPBOARD COMMUNICATIONS
   71   SHIPBOARD TACTICAL                        55,853          55,853
         COMMUNICATIONS.................
   72   SHIP COMMUNICATIONS AUTOMATION..         137,861         137,861
   73   COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS UNDER $5M..          35,093          35,093
        SUBMARINE COMMUNICATIONS
   74   SUBMARINE BROADCAST SUPPORT.....          50,833          50,833
   75   SUBMARINE COMMUNICATION                   69,643          69,643
         EQUIPMENT......................
        SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
   76   SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS          45,841          45,841
   77   NAVY MULTIBAND TERMINAL (NMT)...          88,021          88,021
        SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
   78   JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT               4,293           4,293
         ELEMENT (JCSE).................
        CRYPTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT
   79   INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM            166,540         166,540
         (ISSP).........................
   80   MIO INTEL EXPLOITATION TEAM.....             968             968
        CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
   81   CRYPTOLOGIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP          13,090          13,090
        OTHER ELECTRONIC SUPPORT
   83   COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT...........          61,370          61,370
        SONOBUOYS
   85   SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES............         260,644         310,644
            UPL Sonobuoy increase.......                        [50,000]
        AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   86   MINOTAUR........................           5,000           5,000
   87   WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.         101,843         101,843
   88   AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......         145,601         145,601
   89   ADVANCED ARRESTING GEAR (AAG)...           4,725           4,725
   90   METEOROLOGICAL EQUIPMENT........          14,687          14,687
   92   LEGACY AIRBORNE MCM.............          19,250          19,250
   93   LAMPS EQUIPMENT.................             792             792
   94   AVIATION SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......          55,415          55,415
   95   UMCS-UNMAN CARRIER                        32,668          32,668
         AVIATION(UCA)MISSION CNTRL.....
        SHIP GUN SYSTEM EQUIPMENT
   96   SHIP GUN SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT......           5,451           5,451
        SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT
   97   HARPOON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......           1,100           1,100
   98   SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT..         228,104         228,104
   99   TOMAHAWK SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......          78,593          78,593
        FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  100   STRATEGIC MISSILE SYSTEMS EQUIP.         280,510         280,510
        ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  101   SSN COMBAT CONTROL SYSTEMS......         148,547         148,547
  102   ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT...........          21,130          21,130
        OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  103   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL               15,244          15,244
         EQUIP..........................
  104   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......           5,071           5,071
        OTHER EXPENDABLE ORDNANCE
  105   ANTI-SHIP MISSILE DECOY SYSTEM..          41,962          41,962
  106   SUBMARINE TRAINING DEVICE MODS..          75,057          75,057
  107   SURFACE TRAINING EQUIPMENT......         233,175         233,175
        CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT
         EQUIPMENT
  108   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....           4,562           4,562
  109   GENERAL PURPOSE TRUCKS..........          10,974          10,974
  110   CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE EQUIP          43,191          43,191
  111   FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT.........          21,142          21,142
  112   TACTICAL VEHICLES...............          33,432          33,432
  114   POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT.....           2,633           2,633
  115   ITEMS UNDER $5 MILLION..........          53,467          53,467
  116   PHYSICAL SECURITY VEHICLES......           1,173           1,173
        SUPPLY SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  117   SUPPLY EQUIPMENT................          16,730          16,730
  118   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION           5,389           5,389
  119   SPECIAL PURPOSE SUPPLY SYSTEMS..         654,674         654,674
        TRAINING DEVICES
  120   TRAINING SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......           3,633           3,633
  121   TRAINING AND EDUCATION EQUIPMENT          97,636          97,636
        COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  122   COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......          66,102          59,779
            Program duplication.........                        [-6,323]
  123   MEDICAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......           3,633           3,633
  125   NAVAL MIP SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....           6,097           6,097
  126   OPERATING FORCES SUPPORT                  16,905          16,905
         EQUIPMENT......................
  127   C4ISR EQUIPMENT.................          30,146          30,146
  128   ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.          21,986          21,986
  129   PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT.....         160,046         160,046
  130   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION                    56,899          56,899
         TECHNOLOGY.....................
        OTHER
  133   NEXT GENERATION ENTERPRISE               122,832         122,832
         SERVICE........................
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
  999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............          16,346          16,346
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
  134   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........         375,608         375,608
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY...       9,652,956       9,489,133
 
        PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
        TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
    1   AAV7A1 PIP......................          39,495          39,495
    2   AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT VEHICLE 1.1...         317,935         317,935
    3   LAV PIP.........................          60,734          60,734
        ARTILLERY AND OTHER WEAPONS
    4   155MM LIGHTWEIGHT TOWED HOWITZER          25,065          25,065
    5   ARTILLERY WEAPONS SYSTEM........         100,002         100,002
    6   WEAPONS AND COMBAT VEHICLES               31,945          31,945
         UNDER $5 MILLION...............
        OTHER SUPPORT
    7   MODIFICATION KITS...............          22,760          22,760
        GUIDED MISSILES
    8   GROUND BASED AIR DEFENSE........         175,998         175,998
    9   ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-JAVELIN......          20,207          20,207
   10   FAMILY ANTI-ARMOR WEAPON SYSTEMS          21,913          21,913
         (FOAAWS).......................
   11   ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-TOW..........          60,501          60,501
   12   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)......          29,062          29,062
        COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
   13   COMMON AVIATION COMMAND AND               37,203          37,203
         CONTROL SYSTEM (C..............
        REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT
   14   REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT.......          55,156          55,156
        OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
   15   MODIFICATION KITS...............           4,945           4,945
        COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (NON-
         TEL)
   16   ITEMS UNDER $5 MILLION (COMM &           112,124         112,124
         ELEC)..........................
   17   AIR OPERATIONS C2 SYSTEMS.......          17,408          17,408
        RADAR + EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
   18   RADAR SYSTEMS...................             329             329
   19   GROUND/AIR TASK ORIENTED RADAR           273,022         273,022
         (G/ATOR).......................
        INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
   21   GCSS-MC.........................           4,484           4,484
   22   FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM.............          35,488          35,488
   23   INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT..          56,896          56,896
   25   UNMANNED AIR SYSTEMS (INTEL)....          34,711          34,711
   26   DCGS-MC.........................          32,562          32,562
        OTHER SUPPORT (NON-TEL)
   30   NEXT GENERATION ENTERPRISE               114,901         114,901
         NETWORK (NGEN).................
   31   COMMON COMPUTER RESOURCES.......          51,094          51,094
   32   COMMAND POST SYSTEMS............         108,897         108,897
   33   RADIO SYSTEMS...................         227,320         227,320
   34   COMM SWITCHING & CONTROL SYSTEMS          31,685          31,685
   35   COMM & ELEC INFRASTRUCTURE                21,140          21,140
         SUPPORT........................
   36   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES...........          27,632          27,632
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
  999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............           5,535           5,535
        ADMINISTRATIVE VEHICLES
   37   COMMERCIAL CARGO VEHICLES.......          28,913          28,913
        TACTICAL VEHICLES
   38   MOTOR TRANSPORT MODIFICATIONS...          19,234          19,234
   39   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE....         558,107         558,107
   40   FAMILY OF TACTICAL TRAILERS.....           2,693           2,693
        ENGINEER AND OTHER EQUIPMENT
   41   ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL EQUIP                  495             495
         ASSORT.........................
   42   TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS...........              52              52
   43   POWER EQUIPMENT ASSORTED........          22,441          22,441
   44   AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT....           7,101           7,101
   45   EOD SYSTEMS.....................          44,700          44,700
        MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
   46   PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT.....          15,404          15,404
        GENERAL PROPERTY
   47   FIELD MEDICAL EQUIPMENT.........           2,898           2,898
   48   TRAINING DEVICES................         149,567         149,567
   49   FAMILY OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT          35,622          35,622
   50   ULTRA-LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE                 647             647
         (ULTV).........................
        OTHER SUPPORT
   51   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......          10,956          10,956
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   52   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........          33,470          33,470
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS.       3,090,449       3,090,449
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        TACTICAL FORCES
    1   F-35............................       4,274,359       5,364,359
            UPL additional quantities...                     [1,090,000]
    2   F-35 AP.........................         655,500         811,500
            UPL increase................                       [156,000]
    3   F-15E...........................       1,050,000         888,000
            NRE cost on a non-                                [-162,000]
            developmental A/C...........
        TACTICAL AIRLIFT
    5   KC-46A MDAP.....................       2,234,529       2,705,529
            UPL additional quantities...                       [471,000]
        OTHER AIRLIFT
    6   C-130J..........................          12,156          12,156
    8   MC-130J.........................         871,207         871,207
    9   MC-130J AP......................          40,000          40,000
        HELICOPTERS
   10   COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER........         884,235         884,235
        MISSION SUPPORT AIRCRAFT
   11   C-37A...........................         161,000         161,000
   12   CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C............           2,767           2,767
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   14   TARGET DRONES...................         130,837         130,837
   15   COMPASS CALL....................         114,095         114,095
   17   MQ-9............................         189,205         189,205
        STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
   19   B-2A............................           9,582           9,582
   20   B-1B............................          22,111          22,111
   21   B-52............................          69,648          69,648
   22   LARGE AIRCRAFT INFRARED                   43,758          43,758
         COUNTERMEASURES................
        TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
   23   A-10............................         132,069         132,069
   24   E-11 BACN/HAG...................          70,027          70,027
   25   F-15............................         481,073         328,073
            ADCP unnecessary due to F-                         [-75,100]
            15X.........................
            IFF unnecessary due to F-15X                       [-29,600]
            Longerons unnecessary due to                       [-24,600]
            F-15X.......................
            Radar unnecessary due to F-                        [-23,700]
            15X.........................
   26   F-16............................         234,782         309,782
            Additional radars...........                        [75,000]
   28   F-22A...........................         323,597         323,597
   30   F-35 MODIFICATIONS..............         343,590         343,590
   31   F-15 EPAW.......................         149,047          81,847
            Not required because of F-                         [-67,200]
            15X.........................
   32   INCREMENT 3.2B..................          20,213          20,213
   33   KC-46A MDAP.....................          10,213          10,213
        AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
   34   C-5.............................          73,550          73,550
   36   C-17A...........................          60,244          60,244
   37   C-21............................             216             216
   38   C-32A...........................          11,511          11,511
   39   C-37A...........................             435             435
        TRAINER AIRCRAFT
   40   GLIDER MODS.....................             138             138
   41   T-6.............................          11,826          11,826
   42   T-1.............................          26,787          26,787
   43   T-38............................          37,341          37,341
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   44   U-2 MODS........................          86,896          86,896
   45   KC-10A (ATCA)...................           2,108           2,108
   46   C-12............................           3,021           3,021
   47   VC-25A MOD......................          48,624          48,624
   48   C-40............................             256             256
   49   C-130...........................          52,066          52,066
   50   C-130J MODS.....................         141,686         141,686
   51   C-135...........................         124,491         124,491
   53   COMPASS CALL....................         110,754         110,754
   54   COMBAT FLIGHT INSPECTION--CFIN..             508             508
   55   RC-135..........................         227,673         227,673
   56   E-3.............................         216,299         216,299
   57   E-4.............................          58,477          58,477
   58   E-8.............................          28,778          58,778
            SATCOM radios...............                        [30,000]
   59   AIRBORNE WARNING AND CNTRL SYS            36,000          36,000
         (AWACS) 40/45..................
   60   FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-OF-SIGHT             7,910           7,910
         TERMINALS......................
   61   H-1.............................           3,817           3,817
   62   H-60............................          20,879          20,879
   63   RQ-4 MODS.......................           1,704           1,704
   64   HC/MC-130 MODIFICATIONS.........          51,482          51,482
   65   OTHER AIRCRAFT..................          50,098          50,098
   66   MQ-9 MODS.......................         383,594         383,594
   68   CV-22 MODS......................          65,348          65,348
        AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   69   INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR PARTS.....         708,230         970,230
            F-35 spares.................                        [96,000]
            KC-46 spares................                       [141,000]
            RQ-4........................                        [25,000]
        COMMON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   72   AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT SUPPORT              84,938          84,938
         EQUIP..........................
        POST PRODUCTION SUPPORT
   73   B-2A............................           1,403           1,403
   74   B-2B............................          42,234          42,234
   75   B-52............................           4,641           4,641
   76   C-17A...........................         124,805         124,805
   79   F-15............................           2,589           2,589
   81   F-16............................          15,348          15,348
   84   RQ-4 POST PRODUCTION CHARGES....          47,246          47,246
        INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS
   86   INDUSTRIAL RESPONSIVENESS.......          17,705          17,705
        WAR CONSUMABLES
   87   WAR CONSUMABLES.................          32,102          32,102
        OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES
   88   OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES........       1,194,728       1,194,728
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
  999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............          34,193          34,193
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR       16,784,279      18,486,079
         FORCE..........................
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQUIPMENT--
         BALLISTIC
    1   MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQ-BALLISTIC          55,888          55,888
        TACTICAL
    2   REPLAC EQUIP & WAR CONSUMABLES..           9,100           9,100
    3   JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MUNITION....          15,000          15,000
    4   JOINT AIR-SURFACE STANDOFF               482,525         482,525
         MISSILE........................
    6   SIDEWINDER (AIM-9X).............         160,408         160,408
    7   AMRAAM..........................         332,250         332,250
    8   PREDATOR HELLFIRE MISSILE.......         118,860         118,860
    9   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB.............         275,438         275,438
   10   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II..........         212,434         212,434
        INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
   11   INDUSTR'L PREPAREDNS/POL                     801             801
         PREVENTION.....................
        CLASS IV
   12   ICBM FUZE MOD...................           5,000           5,000
   13   ICBM FUZE MOD AP................          14,497          14,497
   14   MM III MODIFICATIONS............          50,831          59,731
            Air Force requested transfer                         [8,900]
   15   AGM-65D MAVERICK................             294             294
   16   AIR LAUNCH CRUISE MISSILE (ALCM)          77,387          68,487
            Air Force requested transfer                        [-8,900]
        MISSILE SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   18   MSL SPRS/REPAIR PARTS (INITIAL).           1,910           1,910
   19   REPLEN SPARES/REPAIR PARTS......          82,490          82,490
        SPECIAL PROGRAMS
   23   SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAMS.........         144,553         144,553
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
  999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............         849,521         849,521
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR         2,889,187       2,889,187
         FORCE..........................
 
        SPACE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        SPACE PROGRAMS
    1   ADVANCED EHF....................          31,894          31,894
    2   AF SATELLITE COMM SYSTEM........          56,298          56,298
    4   COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS............           5,700           5,700
    5   FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-OF-SIGHT            34,020          34,020
         TERMINALS......................
    7   GENERAL INFORMATION TECH--SPACE.           3,244           3,244
    8   GPSIII FOLLOW ON................         414,625         414,625
    9   GPS III SPACE SEGMENT...........          31,466          31,466
   12   SPACEBORNE EQUIP (COMSEC).......          32,031          32,031
   13   MILSATCOM.......................          11,096          11,096
   15   EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH              1,237,635       1,237,635
         VEH(SPACE).....................
   16   SBIR HIGH (SPACE)...............         233,952         233,952
   17   NUDET DETECTION SYSTEM..........           7,432           7,432
   18   ROCKET SYSTEMS LAUNCH PROGRAM...          11,473          11,473
   19   SPACE FENCE.....................          71,784          71,784
   20   SPACE MODS......................         106,330         106,330
   21   SPACELIFT RANGE SYSTEM SPACE....         118,140         118,140
        SPARES
   22   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........           7,263           7,263
        TOTAL SPACE PROCUREMENT, AIR           2,414,383       2,414,383
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR
         FORCE
        ROCKETS
    1   ROCKETS.........................               0         133,268
            Transfer back to base                              [133,268]
            funding.....................
        CARTRIDGES
    2   CARTRIDGES......................               0         140,449
            Transfer back to base                              [140,449]
            funding.....................
        BOMBS
    3   PRACTICE BOMBS..................               0          29,313
            Transfer back to base                               [29,313]
            funding.....................
    4   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS...........               0          85,885
            Transfer back to base                               [85,885]
            funding.....................
    6   JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MUNITION....               0       1,066,224
            Transfer back to base                            [1,066,224]
            funding.....................
    7   B61.............................               0          80,773
            Transfer back to base                               [80,773]
            funding.....................
        OTHER ITEMS
    9   CAD/PAD.........................               0          47,069
            Transfer back to base                               [47,069]
            funding.....................
   10   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL                    0           6,133
         (EOD)..........................
            Transfer back to base                                [6,133]
            funding.....................
   11   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........               0             533
            Transfer back to base                                  [533]
            funding.....................
   12   MODIFICATIONS...................               0           1,291
            Transfer back to base                                [1,291]
            funding.....................
   13   ITEMS LESS THAN $5,000,000......               0           1,677
            Transfer back to base                                [1,677]
            funding.....................
        FLARES
   15   FLARES..........................               0          36,116
            Transfer back to base                               [36,116]
            funding.....................
        FUZES
   16   FUZES...........................               0           1,734
            Transfer back to base                                [1,734]
            funding.....................
        SMALL ARMS
   17   SMALL ARMS......................               0          37,496
            Transfer back to base                               [37,496]
            funding.....................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,               0       1,667,961
         AIR FORCE......................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
    1   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....          15,238          15,238
        CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES
    2   MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLE.........          34,616          34,616
    3   CAP VEHICLES....................           1,040           1,040
    4   CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES......          23,133          23,133
        SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
    5   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE....          32,027          32,027
    6   SECURITY AND TACTICAL VEHICLES..           1,315           1,315
    7   SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES........          14,593          14,593
        FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
    8   FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH RESCUE                28,604          28,604
         VEHICLES.......................
        MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
    9   MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLES.....          21,848          21,848
        BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
   10   RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND CLEANING             2,925           2,925
         EQU............................
   11   BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT                  55,776          55,776
         VEHICLES.......................
        COMM SECURITY EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
   13   COMSEC EQUIPMENT................          91,461          91,461
        INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
   14   INTERNATIONAL INTEL TECH &                11,386          11,386
         ARCHITECTURES..................
   15   INTELLIGENCE TRAINING EQUIPMENT.           7,619           7,619
   16   INTELLIGENCE COMM EQUIPMENT.....          35,558          35,558
        ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
   17   AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL & LANDING             17,939          17,939
         SYS............................
   19   BATTLE CONTROL SYSTEM--FIXED....           3,063           3,063
   21   WEATHER OBSERVATION FORECAST....          31,447          31,447
   22   STRATEGIC COMMAND AND CONTROL...           5,090           5,090
   23   CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN COMPLEX.......          10,145          10,145
   24   MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS........          14,508          14,508
   26   INTEGRATED STRAT PLAN & ANALY              9,901           9,901
         NETWORK (ISPAN)................
        SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS PROJECTS
   27   GENERAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY..          26,933          26,933
   28   AF GLOBAL COMMAND & CONTROL SYS.           2,756           2,756
   29   BATTLEFIELD AIRBORNE CONTROL              48,478          48,478
         NODE (BACN)....................
   30   MOBILITY COMMAND AND CONTROL....          21,186          21,186
   31   AIR FORCE PHYSICAL SECURITY              178,361         178,361
         SYSTEM.........................
   32   COMBAT TRAINING RANGES..........         233,993         261,993
            Joint threat emitters.......                        [28,000]
   33   MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY COMM         132,648         132,648
         N..............................
   34   WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE (WAS)....          80,818          80,818
   35   C3 COUNTERMEASURES..............          25,036          25,036
   36   INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY              20,900               0
         SYSTEM.........................
            Poor agile implementation...                       [-20,900]
   37   GCSS-AF FOS.....................          11,226          11,226
   38   DEFENSE ENTERPRISE ACCOUNTING &            1,905           1,905
         MGT SYS........................
   39   MAINTENANCE REPAIR & OVERHAUL              1,912           1,912
         INITIATIVE.....................
   40   THEATER BATTLE MGT C2 SYSTEM....           6,337           6,337
   41   AIR & SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER             33,243          33,243
         (AOC)..........................
        AIR FORCE COMMUNICATIONS
   43   BASE INFORMATION TRANSPT INFRAST          69,530          69,530
         (BITI) WIRED...................
   44   AFNET...........................         147,063         147,063
   45   JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT               6,505           6,505
         ELEMENT (JCSE).................
   46   USCENTCOM.......................          20,190          20,190
   47   USSTRATCOM......................          11,244          11,244
        ORGANIZATION AND BASE
   48   TACTICAL C-E EQUIPMENT..........         143,757         143,757
   50   RADIO EQUIPMENT.................          15,402          15,402
   51   CCTV/AUDIOVISUAL EQUIPMENT......           3,211           3,211
   52   BASE COMM INFRASTRUCTURE........          43,123          43,123
        MODIFICATIONS
   53   COMM ELECT MODS.................          14,500          14,500
        PERSONAL SAFETY & RESCUE EQUIP
   54   PERSONAL SAFETY AND RESCUE                50,634          50,634
         EQUIPMENT......................
        DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS HANDLING EQ
   55   POWER CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT....          11,000          11,000
   56   MECHANIZED MATERIAL HANDLING              11,901          11,901
         EQUIP..........................
        BASE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   57   BASE PROCURED EQUIPMENT.........          23,963          23,963
   58   ENGINEERING AND EOD EQUIPMENT...          34,124          34,124
   59   MOBILITY EQUIPMENT..............          26,439          26,439
   60   FUELS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT (FSE)...          24,255          24,255
   61   BASE MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT              38,986          38,986
         EQUIPMENT......................
        SPECIAL SUPPORT PROJECTS
   63   DARP RC135......................          26,716          26,716
   64   DCGS-AF.........................         116,055         116,055
   66   SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAM..........         835,148         835,148
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
  999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............      17,637,807      18,292,807
            Transfer back to base                              [655,000]
            funding.....................
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   67   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........          81,340          81,340
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR          20,687,857      21,349,957
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCMA
    2   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................           2,432           2,432
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
    3   PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION........           5,030           5,030
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
    8   INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY....           3,318           4,718
            Sharkseer transfer..........                         [1,400]
    9   TELEPORT PROGRAM................          25,103          25,103
   10   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......          26,416          26,416
   12   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM                17,574          17,574
         NETWORK........................
   14   WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATION AGENCY          45,079          45,079
   15   SENIOR LEADERSHIP ENTERPRISE....          78,669          78,669
   16   JOINT REGIONAL SECURITY STACKS            88,000          88,000
         (JRSS).........................
   17   JOINT SERVICE PROVIDER..........         107,907         107,907
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
   19   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................           8,122           8,122
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DMACT
   20   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................          10,961          10,961
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DODEA
   21   AUTOMATION/EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT &           1,320           1,320
         LOGISTICS......................
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DPAA
   22   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DPAA...........           1,504           1,504
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DSS
   23   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................             496             496
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE THREAT
         REDUCTION AGENCY
   25   VEHICLES........................             211             211
   26   OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT...........          11,521          11,521
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, MISSILE DEFENSE
         AGENCY
   28   THAAD...........................         425,863               0
            THAAD program transfer to                         [-425,863]
            Army........................
   29   GROUND BASED MIDCOURSE..........           9,471           9,471
   31   AEGIS BMD.......................         600,773         600,773
   32   AEGIS BMD AP....................          96,995          96,995
   33   BMDS AN/TPY-2 RADARS............          10,046          10,046
   34   ARROW 3 UPPER TIER SYSTEMS......          55,000          55,000
   35   SHORT RANGE BALLISTIC MISSILE             50,000          50,000
         DEFENSE (SRBMD)................
   36   AEGIS ASHORE PHASE III..........          25,659          25,659
   37   IRON DOME.......................          95,000          95,000
   38   AEGIS BMD HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE.         124,986         124,986
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, NSA
   44   INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY               1,533             133
         PROGRAM (ISSP).................
            Sharkseer transfer..........                        [-1,400]
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
   45   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD............          43,705          43,705
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
   46   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS............           6,905           6,905
   47   MAJOR EQUIPMENT--TJS CYBER......           1,458           1,458
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
   49   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS............             507             507
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
  999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............         584,366         589,366
            Transfer back to base                                [5,000]
            funding.....................
        AVIATION PROGRAMS
   53   ROTARY WING UPGRADES AND                 172,020         172,020
         SUSTAINMENT....................
   54   UNMANNED ISR....................          15,208          15,208
   55   NON-STANDARD AVIATION...........          32,310          32,310
   56   U-28............................          10,898          10,898
   57   MH-47 CHINOOK...................         173,812         173,812
   58   CV-22 MODIFICATION..............          17,256          17,256
   59   MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE....           5,338           5,338
   60   PRECISION STRIKE PACKAGE........         232,930         232,930
   61   AC/MC-130J......................         173,419         164,619
            RFCM schedule delay.........                        [-8,800]
   62   C-130 MODIFICATIONS.............          15,582          15,582
        SHIPBUILDING
   63   UNDERWATER SYSTEMS..............          58,991          58,991
        AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
   64   ORDNANCE ITEMS &lt;$5M.............         279,992         279,992
        OTHER PROCUREMENT PROGRAMS
   65   INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS............         100,641         100,641
   66   DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/                12,522          12,522
         SURFACE SYSTEMS................
   67   OTHER ITEMS &lt;$5M................         103,910         103,910
   68   COMBATANT CRAFT SYSTEMS.........          33,088          33,088
   69   SPECIAL PROGRAMS................          63,467          63,467
   70   TACTICAL VEHICLES...............          77,832          77,832
   71   WARRIOR SYSTEMS &lt;$5M............         298,480         298,480
   72   COMBAT MISSION REQUIREMENTS.....          19,702          19,702
   73   GLOBAL VIDEO SURVEILLANCE                  4,787           4,787
         ACTIVITIES.....................
   74   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS                   8,175           8,175
         INTELLIGENCE...................
   75   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS........         282,532         282,532
        CBDP
   76   CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL SITUATIONAL          162,406         162,406
         AWARENESS......................
   77   CB PROTECTION & HAZARD                   188,188         188,188
         MITIGATION.....................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE.       5,109,416       4,679,753
 
        JOINT URGENT OPERATIONAL NEEDS
         FUND
        JOINT URGENT OPERATIONAL NEEDS
         FUND
    1   JOINT URGENT OPERATIONAL NEEDS            99,200          99,200
         FUND...........................
        TOTAL JOINT URGENT OPERATIONAL            99,200          99,200
         NEEDS FUND.....................
 
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT...............     118,888,737     135,071,365
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2020         Senate
 Line                 Item                    Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        FIXED WING
    3   MQ-1 UAV........................          54,000          54,000
        ROTARY
   15   CH-47 HELICOPTER................          25,000          25,000
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   21   MULTI SENSOR ABN RECON (MIP)....          80,260          80,260
   24   GRCS SEMA MODS (MIP)............             750             750
   26   EMARSS SEMA MODS (MIP)..........          22,180          22,180
   27   UTILITY/CARGO AIRPLANE MODS.....           8,362           8,362
   29   NETWORK AND MISSION PLAN........              10              10
   31   DEGRADED VISUAL ENVIRONMENT.....          49,450          49,450
        GROUND SUPPORT AVIONICS
   37   CMWS............................         130,219         130,219
   38   COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES            9,310           9,310
         (CIRCM)........................
        OTHER SUPPORT
   45   LAUNCHER GUIDED MISSILE: LONGBOW           2,000           2,000
         HELLFIRE XM2...................
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY         381,541         381,541
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE SYSTEM
    1   SYSTEM INTEGRATION AND TEST              113,857               0
         PROCUREMENT....................
            Transfer back to base                             [-113,857]
            funding.....................
    2   M-SHORAD--PROCUREMENT...........         262,100         158,300
            Transfer back to base                             [-103,800]
            funding.....................
    3   MSE MISSILE.....................         736,541          37,938
            Transfer back to base                             [-698,603]
            funding.....................
    4   INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION                   9,337               0
         CAPABILITY INC 2-I.............
            Transfer back to base                               [-9,337]
            funding.....................
        AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE SYSTEM
    6   HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY............         429,549         236,265
            Transfer back to base                             [-193,284]
            funding.....................
    7   JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MSLS (JAGM).         233,353               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-233,353]
            funding.....................
        ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE SYS
    8   JAVELIN (AAWS-M) SYSTEM SUMMARY.         142,794           4,389
            Transfer back to base                             [-138,405]
            funding.....................
    9   TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY............         114,340               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-114,340]
            funding.....................
   10   TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY AP.........          10,500               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-10,500]
            funding.....................
   11   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)......       1,228,809         431,596
            Transfer back to base                             [-797,213]
            funding.....................
   12   MLRS REDUCED RANGE PRACTICE               27,555               0
         ROCKETS (RRPR).................
            Transfer back to base                              [-27,555]
            funding.....................
   14   ARMY TACTICAL MSL SYS (ATACMS)--         340,612         130,770
         SYS SUM........................
            Transfer back to base                             [-209,842]
            funding.....................
   15   LETHAL MINIATURE AERIAL MISSILE           83,300          83,300
         SYSTEM (LMAMS..................
        MODIFICATIONS
   16   PATRIOT MODS....................         279,464               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-279,464]
            funding.....................
   17   ATACMS MODS.....................          85,320               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-85,320]
            funding.....................
   18   GMLRS MOD.......................           5,094               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-5,094]
            funding.....................
   19   STINGER MODS....................          89,115           7,500
            Transfer back to base                              [-81,615]
            funding.....................
   20   AVENGER MODS....................          14,107               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-14,107]
            funding.....................
   21   ITAS/TOW MODS...................           3,469               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-3,469]
            funding.....................
   22   MLRS MODS.......................         387,019         348,000
            Transfer back to base                              [-39,019]
            funding.....................
   23   HIMARS MODIFICATIONS............          12,483               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-12,483]
            funding.....................
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   24   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........          26,444               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-26,444]
            funding.....................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   25   AIR DEFENSE TARGETS.............          10,593               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-10,593]
            funding.....................
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY.       4,645,755       1,438,058
 
        PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY
        TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
    2   ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE VEHICLE            221,638         221,638
         (AMPV).........................
        MODIFICATION OF TRACKED COMBAT
         VEHICLES
    3   STRYKER (MOD)...................           4,100           4,100
    8   IMPROVED RECOVERY VEHICLE (M88A2          80,146          80,146
         HERCULES)......................
   13   M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD)............          13,100          13,100
        WEAPONS & OTHER COMBAT VEHICLES
   15   M240 MEDIUM MACHINE GUN (7.62MM)             900             900
   16   MULTI-ROLE ANTI-ARMOR ANTI-                2,400           2,400
         PERSONNEL WEAPON S.............
   19   MORTAR SYSTEMS..................          18,941          18,941
   20   XM320 GRENADE LAUNCHER MODULE                526             526
         (GLM)..........................
   23   CARBINE.........................           1,183           1,183
   25   COMMON REMOTELY OPERATED WEAPONS           4,182           4,182
         STATION........................
   26   HANDGUN.........................             248             248
        MOD OF WEAPONS AND OTHER COMBAT
         VEH
   31   M2 50 CAL MACHINE GUN MODS......           6,090           6,090
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY         353,454         353,454
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
        SMALL/MEDIUM CAL AMMUNITION
    1   CTG, 5.56MM, ALL TYPES..........          69,516             567
            Transfer back to base                              [-68,949]
            funding.....................
    2   CTG, 7.62MM, ALL TYPES..........         114,268              40
            Transfer back to base                             [-114,228]
            funding.....................
    3   CTG, HANDGUN, ALL TYPES.........          17,824              17
            Transfer back to base                              [-17,807]
            funding.....................
    4   CTG, .50 CAL, ALL TYPES.........          64,155             189
            Transfer back to base                              [-63,966]
            funding.....................
    5   CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES............          35,920               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-35,920]
            funding.....................
    6   CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES............           8,990               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-8,990]
            funding.....................
    7   CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES............          93,713          24,900
            Transfer back to base                              [-68,813]
            funding.....................
    8   CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES............         103,952               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-103,952]
            funding.....................
        MORTAR AMMUNITION
    9   60MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES..........          50,580               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-50,580]
            funding.....................
   10   81MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES..........          59,373               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-59,373]
            funding.....................
   11   120MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES.........         125,452               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-125,452]
            funding.....................
        TANK AMMUNITION
   12   CARTRIDGES, TANK, 105MM AND              171,284               0
         120MM, ALL TYPES...............
            Transfer back to base                             [-171,284]
            funding.....................
        ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
   13   ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES, 75MM &              44,675               0
         105MM, ALL TYPES...............
            Transfer back to base                              [-44,675]
            funding.....................
   14   ARTILLERY PROJECTILE, 155MM, ALL         266,037               0
         TYPES..........................
            Transfer back to base                             [-266,037]
            funding.....................
   15   PROJ 155MM EXTENDED RANGE M982..          93,486          36,052
            Transfer back to base                              [-57,434]
            funding.....................
   16   ARTILLERY PROPELLANTS, FUZES AND         278,873           7,271
         PRIMERS, ALL...................
            Transfer back to base                             [-271,602]
            funding.....................
        MINES
   17   MINES & CLEARING CHARGES, ALL             55,433               0
         TYPES..........................
            Transfer back to base                              [-55,433]
            funding.....................
        ROCKETS
   18   SHOULDER LAUNCHED MUNITIONS, ALL          75,054             176
         TYPES..........................
            Transfer back to base                              [-74,878]
            funding.....................
   19   ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL TYPES.....         255,453          79,459
            Transfer back to base                             [-175,994]
            funding.....................
        OTHER AMMUNITION
   20   CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES..............           7,595               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-7,595]
            funding.....................
   21   DEMOLITION MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.          51,651               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-51,651]
            funding.....................
   22   GRENADES, ALL TYPES.............          40,592               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-40,592]
            funding.....................
   23   SIGNALS, ALL TYPES..............          18,609               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-18,609]
            funding.....................
   24   SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES...........          16,054               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-16,054]
            funding.....................
        MISCELLANEOUS
   25   AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL TYPES......           5,261               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-5,261]
            funding.....................
   26   NON-LETHAL AMMUNITION, ALL TYPES             715               0
            Transfer back to base                                 [-715]
            funding.....................
   27   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION                 9,224              11
         (AMMO).........................
            Transfer back to base                               [-9,213]
            funding.....................
   28   AMMUNITION PECULIAR EQUIPMENT...          10,044               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-10,044]
            funding.....................
   29   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION          18,492               0
         (AMMO).........................
            Transfer back to base                              [-18,492]
            funding.....................
   30   CLOSEOUT LIABILITIES............              99               0
            Transfer back to base                                  [-99]
            funding.....................
        PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT
   31   INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...........         474,511               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-474,511]
            funding.....................
   32   CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS                   202,512               0
         DEMILITARIZATION...............
            Transfer back to base                             [-202,512]
            funding.....................
   33   ARMS INITIATIVE.................           3,833               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-3,833]
            funding.....................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,       2,843,230         148,682
         ARMY...........................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        TACTICAL VEHICLES
   10   FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL                  26,917          26,917
         VEHICLES (FHTV)................
   11   PLS ESP.........................          16,941          16,941
   12   HVY EXPANDED MOBILE TACTICAL              62,734          62,734
         TRUCK EXT SERV.................
   14   TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE                  50,000          50,000
         PROTECTION KITS................
   15   MODIFICATION OF IN SVC EQUIP....          28,000          28,000
        COMM--JOINT COMMUNICATIONS
   22   TACTICAL NETWORK TECHNOLOGY MOD           40,000          40,000
         IN SVC.........................
        COMM--SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
   29   TRANSPORTABLE TACTICAL COMMAND             6,930           6,930
         COMMUNICATIONS.................
   31   ASSURED POSITIONING, NAVIGATION           11,778          11,778
         AND TIMING.....................
   32   SMART-T (SPACE).................             825             825
        COMM--COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS
   40   RADIO TERMINAL SET, MIDS LVT(2).             350             350
   47   COTS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT...          20,400          20,400
   48   FAMILY OF MED COMM FOR COMBAT              1,231           1,231
         CASUALTY CARE..................
        COMM--INTELLIGENCE COMM
   51   CI AUTOMATION ARCHITECTURE (MIP)           6,200           6,200
        COMM--LONG HAUL COMMUNICATIONS
   59   BASE SUPPORT COMMUNICATIONS.....          20,482          20,482
        COMM--BASE COMMUNICATIONS
   60   INFORMATION SYSTEMS.............          55,800          55,800
   63   INSTALLATION INFO INFRASTRUCTURE          75,820          75,820
         MOD PROGRAM....................
        ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT REL ACT
         (TIARA)
   68   DCGS-A (MIP)....................          38,613          38,613
   70   TROJAN (MIP)....................           1,337           1,337
   71   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (INTEL SPT)            2,051           2,051
         (MIP)..........................
   75   BIOMETRIC TACTICAL COLLECTION              1,800           1,800
         DEVICES (MIP)..................
        ELECT EQUIP--ELECTRONIC WARFARE
         (EW)
   82   FAMILY OF PERSISTENT                      71,493          71,493
         SURVEILLANCE CAP. (MIP)........
   83   COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/SECURITY               6,917           6,917
         COUNTERMEASURES................
        ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL SURV. (TAC
         SURV)
   85   SENTINEL MODS...................          20,000          20,000
   86   NIGHT VISION DEVICES............           3,676           3,676
   94   JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--PLATFORM            25,568          25,568
         (JBC-P)........................
   97   COMPUTER BALLISTICS: LHMBC XM32.             570             570
   98   MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM......          15,975          15,975
        ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL C2 SYSTEMS
  103   AIR & MSL DEFENSE PLANNING &              14,331          14,331
         CONTROL SYS....................
        ELECT EQUIP--AUTOMATION
  112   ARMY TRAINING MODERNIZATION.....           6,014           6,014
  113   AUTOMATED DATA PROCESSING EQUIP.          32,700          32,700
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............           8,200               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-8,200]
            funding.....................
        CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE EQUIPMENT
  124   FAMILY OF NON-LETHAL EQUIPMENT            25,480          25,480
         (FNLE).........................
  125   BASE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (BDS)......          47,110          47,110
  126   CBRN DEFENSE....................          18,711          18,711
        BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
  128   TACTICAL BRIDGING...............           4,884           4,884
        ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION)
         EQUIPMENT
  133   GRND STANDOFF MINE DETECTN SYSM            4,500           4,500
         (GSTAMIDS).....................
  135   HUSKY MOUNTED DETECTION SYSTEM            34,253          34,253
         (HMDS).........................
  136   ROBOTIC COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM              3,300           3,300
         (RCSS).........................
  140   RENDER SAFE SETS KITS OUTFITS...          84,000          84,000
        COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  143   HEATERS AND ECU'S...............               8               8
  145   PERSONNEL RECOVERY SUPPORT                 5,101           5,101
         SYSTEM (PRSS)..................
  146   GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM...........           1,760           1,760
  148   FORCE PROVIDER..................          56,400          56,400
  150   CARGO AERIAL DEL & PERSONNEL               2,040           2,040
         PARACHUTE SYSTEM...............
        PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
  154   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, PETROLEUM           13,986          13,986
         & WATER........................
        MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
  155   COMBAT SUPPORT MEDICAL..........           2,735           2,735
        CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
  159   SCRAPERS, EARTHMOVING...........           4,669           4,669
  160   LOADERS.........................             380             380
  162   TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED...........           8,225           8,225
  164   HIGH MOBILITY ENGINEER EXCAVATOR           3,000           3,000
         (HMEE).........................
  166   CONST EQUIP ESP.................           3,870           3,870
  167   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (CONST                 350             350
         EQUIP).........................
        GENERATORS
  171   GENERATORS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIP.           2,436           2,436
        MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT
  173   FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS.............           5,152           5,152
        TRAINING EQUIPMENT
  175   TRAINING DEVICES, NONSYSTEM.....           2,106           2,106
        TEST MEASURE AND DIG EQUIPMENT
         (TMD)
  181   INTEGRATED FAMILY OF TEST                  1,395           1,395
         EQUIPMENT (IFTE)...............
        OTHER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  184   RAPID EQUIPPING SOLDIER SUPPORT           24,122          24,122
         EQUIPMENT......................
  185   PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEMS (OPA3)          10,016          10,016
  187   MODIFICATION OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT          33,354          33,354
         (OPA-3)........................
  189   BUILDING, PRE-FAB, RELOCATABLE..          62,654          62,654
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY...       1,139,650       1,131,450
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   26   STUASL0 UAV.....................           7,921           7,921
   27   MQ-9A REAPER....................          77,000          77,000
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   36   EP-3 SERIES.....................           5,488           5,488
   46   SPECIAL PROJECT AIRCRAFT........           3,498           3,498
   51   COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT............           3,406           3,406
   53   COMMON DEFENSIVE WEAPON SYSTEM..           3,274           3,274
   62   QRC.............................          18,458          18,458
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY         119,045         119,045
 
        WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
    1   TRIDENT II MODS.................       1,177,251               0
            Transfer back to base                           [-1,177,251]
            funding.....................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
    2   MISSILE INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...           7,142               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-7,142]
            funding.....................
        STRATEGIC MISSILES
    3   TOMAHAWK........................         386,730               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-386,730]
            funding.....................
        TACTICAL MISSILES
    4   AMRAAM..........................         224,502               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-224,502]
            funding.....................
    5   SIDEWINDER......................         119,456               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-119,456]
            funding.....................
    7   STANDARD MISSILE................         404,523               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-404,523]
            funding.....................
    8   STANDARD MISSILE AP.............          96,085               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-96,085]
            funding.....................
    9   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II..........         118,466               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-118,466]
            funding.....................
   10   RAM.............................         106,765               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-106,765]
            funding.....................
   11   JOINT AIR GROUND MISSILE (JAGM).          90,966          90,966
   12   HELLFIRE........................           1,525               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-1,525]
            funding.....................
   15   AERIAL TARGETS..................         152,380           6,500
            Transfer back to base                             [-145,880]
            funding.....................
   16   DRONES AND DECOYS...............          20,000               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-20,000]
            funding.....................
   17   OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT...........           3,388               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-3,388]
            funding.....................
   18   LRASM...........................         143,200               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-143,200]
            funding.....................
   19   LCS OTH MISSILE.................          38,137               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-38,137]
            funding.....................
        MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
   20   ESSM............................         128,059               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-128,059]
            funding.....................
   21   HARPOON MODS....................          25,447               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-25,447]
            funding.....................
   22   HARM MODS.......................         183,740               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-183,740]
            funding.....................
   23   STANDARD MISSILES MODS..........          22,500               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-22,500]
            funding.....................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   24   WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...           1,958               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-1,958]
            funding.....................
   25   FLEET SATELLITE COMM FOLLOW-ON..          67,380               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-67,380]
            funding.....................
        ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   27   ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......         109,427               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-109,427]
            funding.....................
        TORPEDOES AND RELATED EQUIP
   28   SSTD............................           5,561               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-5,561]
            funding.....................
   29   MK-48 TORPEDO...................         114,000               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-114,000]
            funding.....................
   30   ASW TARGETS.....................          15,095               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-15,095]
            funding.....................
        MOD OF TORPEDOES AND RELATED
         EQUIP
   31   MK-54 TORPEDO MODS..............         119,453               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-119,453]
            funding.....................
   32   MK-48 TORPEDO ADCAP MODS........          39,508               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-39,508]
            funding.....................
   33   QUICKSTRIKE MINE................           5,183               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-5,183]
            funding.....................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   34   TORPEDO SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......          79,028               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-79,028]
            funding.....................
   35   ASW RANGE SUPPORT...............           3,890               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-3,890]
            funding.....................
        DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION
   36   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION           3,803               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-3,803]
            funding.....................
        GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
   37   SMALL ARMS AND WEAPONS..........          14,797               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-14,797]
            funding.....................
        MODIFICATION OF GUNS AND GUN
         MOUNTS
   38   CIWS MODS.......................          44,126               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-44,126]
            funding.....................
   39   COAST GUARD WEAPONS.............          44,980               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-44,980]
            funding.....................
   40   GUN MOUNT MODS..................          66,376               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-66,376]
            funding.....................
   41   LCS MODULE WEAPONS..............          14,585               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-14,585]
            funding.....................
   43   AIRBORNE MINE NEUTRALIZATION               7,160               0
         SYSTEMS........................
            Transfer back to base                               [-7,160]
            funding.....................
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   45   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........         126,138               0
            Transfer back to base                             [-126,138]
            funding.....................
        TOTAL WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY.       4,332,710          97,466
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC
        NAVY AMMUNITION
    1   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS...........          63,006          26,978
            Transfer back to base                              [-36,028]
            funding.....................
    2   JDAM............................          82,676          12,263
            Transfer back to base                              [-70,413]
            funding.....................
    3   AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL TYPES.....          76,776          45,020
            Transfer back to base                              [-31,756]
            funding.....................
    4   MACHINE GUN AMMUNITION..........          38,370          33,577
            Transfer back to base                               [-4,793]
            funding.....................
    5   PRACTICE BOMBS..................          46,611          11,903
            Transfer back to base                              [-34,708]
            funding.....................
    6   CARTRIDGES & CART ACTUATED                60,819          15,081
         DEVICES........................
            Transfer back to base                              [-45,738]
            funding.....................
    7   AIR EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES..          94,212          16,911
            Transfer back to base                              [-77,301]
            funding.....................
    8   JATOS...........................           7,262               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-7,262]
            funding.....................
    9   5 INCH/54 GUN AMMUNITION........          22,594               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-22,594]
            funding.....................
   10   INTERMEDIATE CALIBER GUN                  37,193               0
         AMMUNITION.....................
            Transfer back to base                              [-37,193]
            funding.....................
   11   OTHER SHIP GUN AMMUNITION.......          42,753           3,262
            Transfer back to base                              [-39,491]
            funding.....................
   12   SMALL ARMS & LANDING PARTY AMMO.          48,906           1,010
            Transfer back to base                              [-47,896]
            funding.....................
   13   PYROTECHNIC AND DEMOLITION......          11,158             537
            Transfer back to base                              [-10,621]
            funding.....................
   15   AMMUNITION LESS THAN $5 MILLION.           2,386               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-2,386]
            funding.....................
        MARINE CORPS AMMUNITION
   16   MORTARS.........................          57,473           1,930
            Transfer back to base                              [-55,543]
            funding.....................
   17   DIRECT SUPPORT MUNITIONS........         132,937           1,172
            Transfer back to base                             [-131,765]
            funding.....................
   18   INFANTRY WEAPONS AMMUNITION.....          80,214           2,158
            Transfer back to base                              [-78,056]
            funding.....................
   19   COMBAT SUPPORT MUNITIONS........          41,013             965
            Transfer back to base                              [-40,048]
            funding.....................
   20   AMMO MODERNIZATION..............          14,325               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-14,325]
            funding.....................
   21   ARTILLERY MUNITIONS.............         220,923          32,047
            Transfer back to base                             [-188,876]
            funding.....................
   22   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......           4,521               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-4,521]
            funding.....................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY        1,186,128         204,814
         & MC...........................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        OTHER SHIPBOARD EQUIPMENT
   20   UNDERWATER EOD PROGRAMS.........           5,800           5,800
        ASW ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   42   FIXED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM.......         310,503         310,503
        SONOBUOYS
   85   SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES............           2,910           2,910
        AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   88   AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......          13,420          13,420
   94   AVIATION SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......             500             500
        OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  103   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL               15,307          15,307
         EQUIP..........................
        CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT
         EQUIPMENT
  108   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....             173             173
  109   GENERAL PURPOSE TRUCKS..........             408             408
  111   FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT.........             785             785
        SUPPLY SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  117   SUPPLY EQUIPMENT................             100             100
  118   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION             510             510
        COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  122   COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......           2,800           2,800
  123   MEDICAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......           1,794           1,794
  126   OPERATING FORCES SUPPORT                   1,090           1,090
         EQUIPMENT......................
  128   ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.             200             200
  129   PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT.....           1,300           1,300
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY...         357,600         357,600
 
        PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
        GUIDED MISSILES
   12   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)......          16,919          16,919
        ENGINEER AND OTHER EQUIPMENT
   45   EOD SYSTEMS.....................           3,670           3,670
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS.          20,589          20,589
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   17   MQ-9............................         172,240         172,240
   18   RQ-20B PUMA.....................          12,150          12,150
        STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
   22   LARGE AIRCRAFT INFRARED                   53,335          53,335
         COUNTERMEASURES................
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   67   MQ-9 UAS PAYLOADS...............          19,800          19,800
        AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   69   INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR PARTS.....          44,560          44,560
        COMMON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   72   AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT SUPPORT               7,025           7,025
         EQUIP..........................
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR          309,110         309,110
         FORCE..........................
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        TACTICAL
    4   JOINT AIR-SURFACE STANDOFF                20,900          20,900
         MISSILE........................
    8   PREDATOR HELLFIRE MISSILE.......         180,771         180,771
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR           201,671         201,671
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR
         FORCE
        ROCKETS
    1   ROCKETS.........................         218,228          84,960
            Transfer back to base                             [-133,268]
            funding.....................
        CARTRIDGES
    2   CARTRIDGES......................         193,091          52,642
            Transfer back to base                             [-140,449]
            funding.....................
        BOMBS
    3   PRACTICE BOMBS..................          29,313               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-29,313]
            funding.....................
    4   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS...........         631,194         545,309
            Transfer back to base                              [-85,885]
            funding.....................
    6   JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MUNITION....       1,066,224               0
            Transfer back to base                           [-1,066,224]
            funding.....................
    7   B61.............................          80,773               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-80,773]
            funding.....................
        OTHER ITEMS
    9   CAD/PAD.........................          47,069               0
            Transfer back to base                              [-47,069]
            funding.....................
   10   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL                6,133               0
         (EOD)..........................
            Transfer back to base                               [-6,133]
            funding.....................
   11   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........             533               0
            Transfer back to base                                 [-533]
            funding.....................
   12   MODIFICATIONS...................           1,291               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-1,291]
            funding.....................
   13   ITEMS LESS THAN $5,000,000......           1,677               0
            Transfer back to base                               [-1,677]
            funding.....................
        FLARES
   15   FLARES..........................         129,388          93,272
            Transfer back to base                              [-36,116]
            funding.....................
        FUZES
   16   FUZES...........................         158,889         157,155
            Transfer back to base                               [-1,734]
            funding.....................
        SMALL ARMS
   17   SMALL ARMS......................          43,591           6,095
            Transfer back to base                              [-37,496]
            funding.....................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,       2,607,394         939,433
         AIR FORCE......................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
    1   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....           1,276           1,276
        CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES
    4   CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES......           9,702           9,702
        SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
    5   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE....          40,999          40,999
    7   SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES........          52,502          52,502
        FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
    8   FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH RESCUE                16,652          16,652
         VEHICLES.......................
        MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
    9   MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLES.....           2,944           2,944
        BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
   10   RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND CLEANING             3,753           3,753
         EQU............................
   11   BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT                  11,837          11,837
         VEHICLES.......................
        SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS PROJECTS
   27   GENERAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY..           5,000           5,000
   31   AIR FORCE PHYSICAL SECURITY              106,919         106,919
         SYSTEM.........................
        ORGANIZATION AND BASE
   48   TACTICAL C-E EQUIPMENT..........             306             306
   52   BASE COMM INFRASTRUCTURE........           4,300           4,300
        PERSONAL SAFETY & RESCUE EQUIP
   54   PERSONAL SAFETY AND RESCUE                22,200          22,200
         EQUIPMENT......................
        BASE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   59   MOBILITY EQUIPMENT..............          26,535          26,535
   60   FUELS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT (FSE)...           4,040           4,040
   61   BASE MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT              20,067          20,067
         EQUIPMENT......................
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............       3,864,066       3,209,066
            Transfer back to base                             [-655,000]
            funding.....................
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR           4,193,098       3,538,098
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
    9   TELEPORT PROGRAM................           3,800           3,800
   12   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM                12,000          12,000
         NETWORK........................
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE THREAT
         REDUCTION AGENCY
   27   COUNTER IED & IMPROVISED THREAT            4,590           4,590
         TECHNOLOGIES...................
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............          56,380          51,380
            Transfer back to base                               [-5,000]
            funding.....................
        AVIATION PROGRAMS
   50   MANNED ISR......................           5,000           5,000
   51   MC-12...........................           5,000           5,000
   52   MH-60 BLACKHAWK.................          28,100          28,100
   54   UNMANNED ISR....................           8,207           8,207
   56   U-28............................          31,500          31,500
   57   MH-47 CHINOOK...................          37,500          37,500
   59   MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE....           1,900           1,900
        AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
   64   ORDNANCE ITEMS &lt;$5M.............         138,252         138,252
        OTHER PROCUREMENT PROGRAMS
   65   INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS............          16,500          16,500
   67   OTHER ITEMS &lt;$5M................              28              28
   70   TACTICAL VEHICLES...............           2,990           2,990
   71   WARRIOR SYSTEMS &lt;$5M............          37,512          37,512
   72   COMBAT MISSION REQUIREMENTS.....          10,000          10,000
   74   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS                   7,594           7,594
         INTELLIGENCE...................
   75   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS........          45,194          45,194
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE.         452,047         447,047
 
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT...............      23,143,022       9,688,058
------------------------------------------------------------------------

        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION (In Thousands of
                                Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Program                          FY 2020         Senate
  Line       Element           Item           Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          ARMY
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    2    0601102A        DEFENSE                 297,976         302,976
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
         ..............      Counter UAS                         [5,000]
                             University
                             Research.
    3    0601103A        UNIVERSITY               65,858          65,858
                          RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
    4    0601104A        UNIVERSITY AND           86,164          88,164
                          INDUSTRY
                          RESEARCH
                          CENTERS.
         ..............      3D printing                         [2,000]
    5    0601121A        CYBER                     4,982           9,982
                          COLLABORATIVE
                          RESEARCH
                          ALLIANCE.
         ..............      Cyber basic                         [5,000]
                             research.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          454,980         466,980
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
   10    0602141A        LETHALITY                26,961          26,961
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   11    0602142A        ARMY APPLIED             25,319          25,319
                          RESEARCH.
   12    0602143A        SOLDIER                 115,274         118,274
                          LETHALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      UPL MDTF                            [3,000]
                             for
                             INDOPACOM.
   13    0602144A        GROUND                   35,199          41,699
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Advanced                            [2,000]
                             materials
                             manufacturi
                             ng process.
         ..............      Biopolymer                          [2,000]
                             structural
                             materials.
         ..............      Cellulose                           [2,500]
                             structural
                             materials.
   14    0602145A        NEXT GENERATION         219,047         234,047
                          COMBAT VEHICLE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Support                            [15,000]
                             operational
                             energy
                             development
                             and testing.
   15    0602146A        NETWORK C3I             114,516         114,516
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   16    0602147A        LONG RANGE               74,327          86,327
                          PRECISION
                          FIRES
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Composite                          [10,000]
                             tube and
                             propulsion
                             technology.
         ..............      Novel                               [2,000]
                             printed
                             armament
                             components.
   17    0602148A        FUTURE VERTICLE          93,601          93,601
                          LIFT
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   18    0602150A        AIR AND MISSILE          50,771          50,771
                          DEFENSE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   20    0602213A        C3I APPLIED              18,947          23,947
                          CYBER.
         ..............      Cyber                               [5,000]
                             research.
   38    0602785A        MANPOWER/                20,873          20,873
                          PERSONNEL/
                          TRAINING
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   40    0602787A        MEDICAL                  99,155         102,155
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Female                              [3,000]
                             warfighter
                             performance
                             research.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                893,990         938,490
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   42    0603002A        MEDICAL                  42,030          42,030
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   47    0603007A        MANPOWER,                11,038          11,038
                          PERSONNEL AND
                          TRAINING
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   50    0603117A        ARMY ADVANCED            63,338          63,338
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   51    0603118A        SOLDIER                 118,468         118,468
                          LETHALITY
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   52    0603119A        GROUND ADVANCED          12,593          32,593
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      100 hour                           [10,000]
                             battery.
         ..............      Computation                         [2,000]
                             al
                             manufacturi
                             ng
                             engineering.
         ..............      Lightweight                         [3,000]
                             protective
                             and
                             hardening
                             materials.
         ..............      Robotic                             [5,000]
                             constructio
                             n research.
   59    0603457A        C3I CYBER                13,769          13,769
                          ADVANCED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   60    0603461A        HIGH                    184,755         184,755
                          PERFORMANCE
                          COMPUTING
                          MODERNIZATION
                          PROGRAM.
   61    0603462A        NEXT GENERATION         160,035         185,035
                          COMBAT VEHICLE
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Ground                              [5,000]
                             vehicle
                             sustainment
                             research.
         ..............      Hydrogen                           [20,000]
                             fuel cell
                             propulsion
                             &
                             autonomous
                             driving
                             controls.
   62    0603463A        NETWORK C3I             106,899         106,899
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   63    0603464A        LONG RANGE              174,386         178,386
                          PRECISION
                          FIRES ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Hypersonics                         [4,000]
                             research.
   64    0603465A        FUTURE VERTICAL         151,640         151,640
                          LIFT ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   65    0603466A        AIR AND MISSILE          60,613          60,613
                          DEFENSE
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,099,564       1,148,564
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES
   73    0603305A        ARMY MISSLE              10,987          10,987
                          DEFENSE
                          SYSTEMS
                          INTEGRATION.
   74    0603327A        AIR AND MISSILE          15,148          15,148
                          DEFENSE
                          SYSTEMS
                          ENGINEERING.
   75    0603619A        LANDMINE                 92,915          92,915
                          WARFARE AND
                          BARRIER--ADV
                          DEV.
   77    0603639A        TANK AND MEDIUM          82,146          82,146
                          CALIBER
                          AMMUNITION.
   78    0603645A        ARMORED SYSTEM          157,656         157,656
                          MODERNIZATION-
                          -ADV DEV.
   79    0603747A        SOLDIER SUPPORT           6,514           6,514
                          AND
                          SURVIVABILITY.
   80    0603766A        TACTICAL                 34,890          34,890
                          ELECTRONIC
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM--ADV
                          DEV.
   81    0603774A        NIGHT VISION            251,011         251,011
                          SYSTEMS
                          ADVANCED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   82    0603779A        ENVIRONMENTAL            15,132          15,132
                          QUALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY--DE
                          M/VAL.
   83    0603790A        NATO RESEARCH             5,406           5,406
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   84    0603801A        AVIATION--ADV           459,290         534,890
                          DEV.
         ..............      UPL FVL CS3                        [75,600]
                             program
                             increase.
   85    0603804A        LOGISTICS AND             6,254           6,254
                          ENGINEER
                          EQUIPMENT--ADV
                          DEV.
   86    0603807A        MEDICAL                  31,175          31,175
                          SYSTEMS--ADV
                          DEV.
   87    0603827A        SOLDIER                  22,113          22,113
                          SYSTEMS--ADVAN
                          CED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   88    0604017A        ROBOTICS                115,222         115,222
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   90    0604021A        ELECTRONIC               18,043          18,043
                          WARFARE
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          MATURATION
                          (MIP).
   91    0604100A        ANALYSIS OF              10,023          10,023
                          ALTERNATIVES.
   92    0604113A        FUTURE TACTICAL          40,745          40,745
                          UNMANNED
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEM (FTUAS).
   93    0604114A        LOWER TIER AIR          427,772         427,772
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          (LTAMD) SENSOR.
   94    0604115A        TECHNOLOGY              196,676         196,676
                          MATURATION
                          INITIATIVES.
   95    0604117A        MANEUVER--SHORT          33,100          33,100
                          RANGE AIR
                          DEFENSE (M-
                          SHORAD).
   97    0604119A        ARMY ADVANCED           115,116         115,116
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPING.
   99    0604121A        SYNTHETIC               136,761         136,761
                          TRAINING
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          REFINEMENT &
                          PROTOTYPING.
  100    0604182A        HYPERSONICS....         228,000         358,610
         ..............      UPL                               [130,610]
                             accelerate
                             Hypersonic
                             Weapons
                             System.
  102    0604403A        FUTURE                    8,000           8,000
                          INTERCEPTOR.
  103    0604541A        UNIFIED NETWORK          39,600          39,600
                          TRANSPORT.
  104    0604644A        MOBILE MEDIUM            20,000          20,000
                          RANGE MISSILE.
  106    0305251A        CYBERSPACE               52,102          52,102
                          OPERATIONS
                          FORCES AND
                          FORCE SUPPORT.
  107    1206120A        ASSURED                 192,562         192,562
                          POSITIONING,
                          NAVIGATION AND
                          TIMING (PNT).
  108    1206308A        ARMY SPACE              104,996         104,996
                          SYSTEMS
                          INTEGRATION.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              2,929,355       3,135,565
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION
  109    0604201A        AIRCRAFT                 29,164          29,164
                          AVIONICS.
  110    0604270A        ELECTRONIC               70,539          70,539
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  113    0604601A        INFANTRY                106,121         126,021
                          SUPPORT
                          WEAPONS.
         ..............      UPL Next                           [19,900]
                             Generation
                             Squad
                             Weapon--Aut
                             omatic
                             Rifle.
  114    0604604A        MEDIUM TACTICAL           2,152           2,152
                          VEHICLES.
  115    0604611A        JAVELIN........          17,897          17,897
  116    0604622A        FAMILY OF HEAVY          16,745          16,745
                          TACTICAL
                          VEHICLES.
  117    0604633A        AIR TRAFFIC               6,989           6,989
                          CONTROL.
  118    0604642A        LIGHT TACTICAL           10,465          10,465
                          WHEELED
                          VEHICLES.
  119    0604645A        ARMORED SYSTEMS         310,152         310,152
                          MODERNIZATION
                          (ASM)--ENG DEV.
  120    0604710A        NIGHT VISION            181,732         181,732
                          SYSTEMS--ENG
                          DEV.
  121    0604713A        COMBAT FEEDING,           2,393           2,393
                          CLOTHING, AND
                          EQUIPMENT.
  122    0604715A        NON-SYSTEM               27,412          27,412
                          TRAINING
                          DEVICES--ENG
                          DEV.
  123    0604741A        AIR DEFENSE              43,502          43,502
                          COMMAND,
                          CONTROL AND
                          INTELLIGENCE--
                          ENG DEV.
  124    0604742A        CONSTRUCTIVE             11,636          11,636
                          SIMULATION
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  125    0604746A        AUTOMATIC TEST           10,915          10,915
                          EQUIPMENT
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  126    0604760A        DISTRIBUTIVE              7,801           7,801
                          INTERACTIVE
                          SIMULATIONS
                          (DIS)--ENG DEV.
  127    0604768A        BRILLIANT ANTI-          25,000          25,000
                          ARMOR
                          SUBMUNITION
                          (BAT).
  128    0604780A        COMBINED ARMS             9,241           9,241
                          TACTICAL
                          TRAINER (CATT)
                          CORE.
  129    0604798A        BRIGADE                  42,634          42,634
                          ANALYSIS,
                          INTEGRATION
                          AND EVALUATION.
  130    0604802A        WEAPONS AND             181,023         181,023
                          MUNITIONS--ENG
                          DEV.
  131    0604804A        LOGISTICS AND           103,226         103,226
                          ENGINEER
                          EQUIPMENT--ENG
                          DEV.
  132    0604805A        COMMAND,                 12,595          12,595
                          CONTROL,
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          SYSTEMS--ENG
                          DEV.
  133    0604807A        MEDICAL                  48,264          48,264
                          MATERIEL/
                          MEDICAL
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          EQUIPMENT--ENG
                          DEV.
  134    0604808A        LANDMINE                 39,208          39,208
                          WARFARE/
                          BARRIER--ENG
                          DEV.
  135    0604818A        ARMY TACTICAL           140,637         140,637
                          COMMAND &
                          CONTROL
                          HARDWARE &
                          SOFTWARE.
  136    0604820A        RADAR                   105,243         105,243
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  137    0604822A        GENERAL FUND             46,683          46,683
                          ENTERPRISE
                          BUSINESS
                          SYSTEM (GFEBS).
  138    0604823A        FIREFINDER.....          17,294          17,294
  139    0604827A        SOLDIER                   5,803           5,803
                          SYSTEMS--WARRI
                          OR DEM/VAL.
  140    0604852A        SUITE OF                 98,698          98,698
                          SURVIVABILITY
                          ENHANCEMENT
                          SYSTEMS--EMD.
  141    0604854A        ARTILLERY                15,832          15,832
                          SYSTEMS--EMD.
  142    0605013A        INFORMATION             126,537         126,537
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  143    0605018A        INTEGRATED              142,773               0
                          PERSONNEL AND
                          PAY SYSTEM-
                          ARMY (IPPS-A).
         ..............      Poor                             [-142,773]
                             business
                             process
                             reengineeri
                             ng.
  144    0605028A        ARMORED MULTI-           96,730          96,730
                          PURPOSE
                          VEHICLE (AMPV).
  145    0605029A        INTEGRATED                6,699           6,699
                          GROUND
                          SECURITY
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          RESPONSE
                          CAPABILITY
                          (IGSSR-C).
  146    0605030A        JOINT TACTICAL           15,882          15,882
                          NETWORK CENTER
                          (JTNC).
  147    0605031A        JOINT TACTICAL           40,808          40,808
                          NETWORK (JTN).
  149    0605033A        GROUND-BASED              3,847           3,847
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM--EXPEDI
                          TIONARY (GBOSS-
                          E).
  150    0605034A        TACTICAL                  6,928           6,928
                          SECURITY
                          SYSTEM (TSS).
  151    0605035A        COMMON INFRARED          34,488          34,488
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S (CIRCM).
  152    0605036A        COMBATING                10,000          10,000
                          WEAPONS OF
                          MASS
                          DESTRUCTION
                          (CWMD).
  154    0605038A        NUCLEAR                   6,054           6,054
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          CHEMICAL
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          VEHICLE
                          (NBCRV) SENSOR
                          SUITE.
  155    0605041A        DEFENSIVE CYBER          62,262          62,262
                          TOOL
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  156    0605042A        TACTICAL                 35,654          35,654
                          NETWORK RADIO
                          SYSTEMS (LOW-
                          TIER).
  157    0605047A        CONTRACT                 19,682               0
                          WRITING SYSTEM.
         ..............      Program                           [-19,682]
                             duplication.
  158    0605049A        MISSILE WARNING           1,539           1,539
                          SYSTEM
                          MODERNIZATION
                          (MWSM).
  159    0605051A        AIRCRAFT                 64,557          64,557
                          SURVIVABILITY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  160    0605052A        INDIRECT FIRE           243,228         149,628
                          PROTECTION
                          CAPABILITY INC
                          2--BLOCK 1.
         ..............      EMAM                             [-124,200]
                             development
                             ahead of
                             need.
         ..............      Iron Dome                          [20,600]
                             testing and
                             delivery.
         ..............      UPL Multi-                         [10,000]
                             Domain
                             Artillery.
  161    0605053A        GROUND ROBOTICS          41,308          28,508
         ..............      Army                              [-12,800]
                             requested
                             realignment.
  162    0605054A        EMERGING                 45,896          45,896
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          INITIATIVES.
  163    0605203A        ARMY SYSTEM             164,883         164,883
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
  165    0605450A        JOINT AIR-TO-             9,500           9,500
                          GROUND MISSILE
                          (JAGM).
  166    0605457A        ARMY INTEGRATED         208,938         208,938
                          AIR AND
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          (AIAMD).
  167    0605625A        MANNED GROUND           378,400         418,400
                          VEHICLE.
         ..............      UPL NGCV                           [40,000]
                             50mm gun.
  168    0605766A        NATIONAL                  7,835           7,835
                          CAPABILITIES
                          INTEGRATION
                          (MIP).
  169    0605812A        JOINT LIGHT               2,732           7,232
                          TACTICAL
                          VEHICLE (JLTV)
                          ENGINEERING
                          AND
                          MANUFACTURING
                          DEVELOPMENT PH.
         ..............      Army                                [4,500]
                             requested
                             realignment.
  170    0605830A        AVIATION GROUND           1,664           1,664
                          SUPPORT
                          EQUIPMENT.
  172    0303032A        TROJAN--RH12...           3,936           3,936
  174    0304270A        ELECTRONIC               19,675          19,675
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM       3,549,431       3,344,976
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  RDT&E
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  176    0604256A        THREAT                   14,117          16,117
                          SIMULATOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Cybersecuri                         [2,000]
                             ty threat
                             simulation.
  177    0604258A        TARGET SYSTEMS            8,327           8,327
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  178    0604759A        MAJOR T&E               136,565         136,565
                          INVESTMENT.
  179    0605103A        RAND ARROYO              13,113          13,113
                          CENTER.
  180    0605301A        ARMY KWAJALEIN          238,691         238,691
                          ATOLL.
  181    0605326A        CONCEPTS                 42,922          42,922
                          EXPERIMENTATIO
                          N PROGRAM.
  183    0605601A        ARMY TEST               334,468         349,468
                          RANGES AND
                          FACILITIES.
         ..............      Directed                           [15,000]
                             energy test
                             capabilitie
                             s.
  184    0605602A        ARMY TECHNICAL           46,974          46,974
                          TEST
                          INSTRUMENTATIO
                          N AND TARGETS.
  185    0605604A        SURVIVABILITY/           35,075          35,075
                          LETHALITY
                          ANALYSIS.
  186    0605606A        AIRCRAFT                  3,461           3,461
                          CERTIFICATION.
  187    0605702A        METEOROLOGICAL            6,233           6,233
                          SUPPORT TO
                          RDT&E
                          ACTIVITIES.
  188    0605706A        MATERIEL                 21,342          21,342
                          SYSTEMS
                          ANALYSIS.
  189    0605709A        EXPLOITATION OF          11,168          11,168
                          FOREIGN ITEMS.
  190    0605712A        SUPPORT OF               52,723          52,723
                          OPERATIONAL
                          TESTING.
  191    0605716A        ARMY EVALUATION          60,815          60,815
                          CENTER.
  192    0605718A        ARMY MODELING &           2,527           2,527
                          SIM X-CMD
                          COLLABORATION
                          & INTEG.
  193    0605801A        PROGRAMWIDE              58,175          58,175
                          ACTIVITIES.
  194    0605803A        TECHNICAL                25,060          25,060
                          INFORMATION
                          ACTIVITIES.
  195    0605805A        MUNITIONS                44,458          44,458
                          STANDARDIZATIO
                          N,
                          EFFECTIVENESS
                          AND SAFETY.
  196    0605857A        ENVIRONMENTAL             4,681           4,681
                          QUALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          MGMT SUPPORT.
  197    0605898A        ARMY DIRECT              53,820          53,820
                          REPORT
                          HEADQUARTERS--
                          R&D - MHA.
  198    0606001A        MILITARY GROUND-          4,291           4,291
                          BASED CREW
                          TECHNOLOGY.
  199    0606002A        RONALD REAGAN            62,069          62,069
                          BALLISTIC
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE TEST
                          SITE.
  200    0606003A        COUNTERINTEL              1,050           1,050
                          AND HUMAN
                          INTEL
                          MODERNIZATION.
  201    0606942A        ASSESSMENTS AND           4,500           4,500
                          EVALUATIONS
                          CYBER
                          VULNERABILITIE
                          S.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL RDT&E        1,286,625       1,303,625
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
  204    0603778A        MLRS PRODUCT             22,877          22,877
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  206    0605024A        ANTI-TAMPER               8,491           8,491
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SUPPORT.
  207    0607131A        WEAPONS AND              15,645          15,645
                          MUNITIONS
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
  209    0607134A        LONG RANGE              164,182         164,182
                          PRECISION
                          FIRES (LRPF).
  211    0607136A        BLACKHAWK                13,039          13,039
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  212    0607137A        CHINOOK PRODUCT         174,371         174,371
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  213    0607138A        FIXED WING                4,545           4,545
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  214    0607139A        IMPROVED                206,434         206,434
                          TURBINE ENGINE
                          PROGRAM.
  216    0607142A        AVIATION ROCKET          24,221          24,221
                          SYSTEM PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  217    0607143A        UNMANNED                 32,016          32,016
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEM
                          UNIVERSAL
                          PRODUCTS.
  218    0607145A        APACHE FUTURE             5,448           5,448
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  219    0607312A        ARMY                     49,526          49,526
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  220    0607665A        FAMILY OF                 1,702           1,702
                          BIOMETRICS.
  221    0607865A        PATRIOT PRODUCT          96,430          96,430
                          IMPROVEMENT.
  222    0203728A        JOINT AUTOMATED          47,398          47,398
                          DEEP OPERATION
                          COORDINATION
                          SYSTEM
                          (JADOCS).
  223    0203735A        COMBAT VEHICLE          334,463         334,463
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
  225    0203743A        155MM SELF-             214,246         214,246
                          PROPELLED
                          HOWITZER
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
  226    0203744A        AIRCRAFT                 16,486          16,486
                          MODIFICATIONS/
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
  227    0203752A        AIRCRAFT ENGINE             144             144
                          COMPONENT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  228    0203758A        DIGITIZATION...           5,270           5,270
  229    0203801A        MISSILE/AIR               1,287           1,287
                          DEFENSE
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  230    0203802A        OTHER MISSILE                 0          24,100
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............      UPL CD                             [24,100]
                             ATACMS.
  234    0205412A        ENVIRONMENTAL               732             732
                          QUALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY--OP
                          ERATIONAL
                          SYSTEM DEV.
  235    0205456A        LOWER TIER AIR          107,746         107,746
                          AND MISSILE
                          DEFENSE (AMD)
                          SYSTEM.
  236    0205778A        GUIDED MULTIPLE-        138,594         138,594
                          LAUNCH ROCKET
                          SYSTEM (GMLRS).
  238    0303028A        SECURITY AND             13,845          13,845
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  239    0303140A        INFORMATION              29,185          29,185
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  240    0303141A        GLOBAL COMBAT            68,976          68,976
                          SUPPORT SYSTEM.
  241    0303150A        WWMCCS/GLOBAL             2,073           2,073
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL SYSTEM.
  245    0305179A        INTEGRATED                  459             459
                          BROADCAST
                          SERVICE (IBS).
  246    0305204A        TACTICAL                  5,097           5,097
                          UNMANNED
                          AERIAL
                          VEHICLES.
  247    0305206A        AIRBORNE                 11,177          11,177
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  248    0305208A        DISTRIBUTED              38,121          38,121
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  250    0305232A        RQ-11 UAV......           3,218           3,218
  251    0305233A        RQ-7 UAV.......           7,817           7,817
  252    0307665A        BIOMETRICS                2,000           2,000
                          ENABLED
                          INTELLIGENCE.
  253    0708045A        END ITEM                 59,848          62,848
                          INDUSTRIAL
                          PREPAREDNESS
                          ACTIVITIES.
         ..............      Nanoscale                           [3,000]
                             materials
                             manufacturi
                             ng.
  254    1203142A        SATCOM GROUND            34,169          34,169
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          (SPACE).
  255    1208053A        JOINT TACTICAL           10,275          10,275
                          GROUND SYSTEM.
  999    9999999999      CLASSIFIED                7,273           7,273
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,978,826       2,005,926
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      12,192,771      12,344,126
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          ARMY.
         ..............
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          NAVY
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    1    0601103N        UNIVERSITY              116,850         126,850
                          RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............      Cyber basic                        [10,000]
                             research.
    2    0601152N        IN-HOUSE                 19,121          19,121
                          LABORATORY
                          INDEPENDENT
                          RESEARCH.
    3    0601153N        DEFENSE                 470,007         470,007
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          605,978         615,978
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    4    0602114N        POWER                    18,546          18,546
                          PROJECTION
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
    5    0602123N        FORCE                   119,517         136,017
                          PROTECTION
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Carbon                              [8,000]
                             capture.
         ..............      Electric                            [2,500]
                             propulsion
                             research.
         ..............      Energy                              [3,000]
                             resilience
                             research.
         ..............      Program                            [-5,000]
                             reduction.
         ..............      Test bed                            [8,000]
                             for
                             autonomous
                             ship
                             systems.
    6    0602131M        MARINE CORPS             56,604          59,604
                          LANDING FORCE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Interdiscip                         [3,000]
                             linary
                             cybersecuri
                             ty.
    7    0602235N        COMMON PICTURE           49,297          44,297
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Coordinate                         [-5,000]
                             space
                             activities.
    8    0602236N        WARFIGHTER               63,825          65,825
                          SUSTAINMENT
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Warfighter                          [2,000]
                             safety and
                             performance
                             research.
    9    0602271N        ELECTROMAGNETIC          83,497          78,497
                          SYSTEMS
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Coordinate                         [-5,000]
                             EW
                             activities.
   10    0602435N        OCEAN                    63,894          63,894
                          WARFIGHTING
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   11    0602651M        JOINT NON-                6,346           6,346
                          LETHAL WEAPONS
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   12    0602747N        UNDERSEA                 57,075          64,575
                          WARFARE
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Undersea                            [7,500]
                             vehicle
                             technology
                             research.
   13    0602750N        FUTURE NAVAL            154,755         154,755
                          CAPABILITIES
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   14    0602782N        MINE AND                 36,074          36,074
                          EXPEDITIONARY
                          WARFARE
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   15    0602792N        INNOVATIVE              153,062         153,062
                          NAVAL
                          PROTOTYPES
                          (INP) APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   16    0602861N        SCIENCE AND              73,961          73,961
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          MANAGEMENT--ON
                          R FIELD
                          ACITIVITIES.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                936,453         955,453
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   17    0603123N        FORCE                    35,286          35,286
                          PROTECTION
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   18    0603271N        ELECTROMAGNETIC           9,499           9,499
                          SYSTEMS
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   19    0603640M        USMC ADVANCED           172,847         176,847
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEMONSTRATION
                          (ATD).
         ..............      Consolidate                        [-5,000]
                             efforts in
                             AI/ML with
                             Joint Force.
         ..............      UPL MUDLAN                          [9,000]
                             program
                             increase.
   20    0603651M        JOINT NON-               13,307          13,307
                          LETHAL WEAPONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   21    0603673N        FUTURE NAVAL            231,907         231,907
                          CAPABILITIES
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   22    0603680N        MANUFACTURING            60,138          60,138
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
   23    0603729N        WARFIGHTER                4,849           4,849
                          PROTECTION
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   25    0603758N        NAVY                     67,739          67,739
                          WARFIGHTING
                          EXPERIMENTS
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATIONS.
   26    0603782N        MINE AND                 13,335          13,335
                          EXPEDITIONARY
                          WARFARE
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   27    0603801N        INNOVATIVE              133,303         128,303
                          NAVAL
                          PROTOTYPES
                          (INP) ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Reduce                             [-5,000]
                             electronic
                             manuever.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                742,210         741,210
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES
   28    0603207N        AIR/OCEAN                32,643          38,643
                          TACTICAL
                          APPLICATIONS.
         ..............      Program                             [6,000]
                             increase
                             for 1 REMUS
                             600 vehicle.
   29    0603216N        AVIATION                 11,919          11,919
                          SURVIVABILITY.
   30    0603251N        AIRCRAFT                  1,473           1,473
                          SYSTEMS.
   31    0603254N        ASW SYSTEMS               7,172           7,172
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   32    0603261N        TACTICAL                  3,419           3,419
                          AIRBORNE
                          RECONNAISSANCE.
   33    0603382N        ADVANCED COMBAT          64,694          64,694
                          SYSTEMS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   34    0603502N        SURFACE AND             507,000         134,500
                          SHALLOW WATER
                          MINE
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S.
         ..............      Excess                           [-372,500]
                             procurement
                             ahead of
                             satisfactor
                             y testing.
   35    0603506N        SURFACE SHIP             15,800          15,800
                          TORPEDO
                          DEFENSE.
   36    0603512N        CARRIER SYSTEMS           4,997           4,997
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   37    0603525N        PILOT FISH.....         291,148         291,148
   38    0603527N        RETRACT LARCH..          11,980          11,980
   39    0603536N        RETRACT JUNIPER         129,163         129,163
   40    0603542N        RADIOLOGICAL                689             689
                          CONTROL.
   41    0603553N        SURFACE ASW....           1,137           1,137
   42    0603561N        ADVANCED                148,756         153,756
                          SUBMARINE
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Project                             [5,000]
                             2033: Test
                             site
                             emergent
                             repairs.
   43    0603562N        SUBMARINE                11,192          11,192
                          TACTICAL
                          WARFARE
                          SYSTEMS.
   44    0603563N        SHIP CONCEPT             81,846          57,846
                          ADVANCED
                          DESIGN.
         ..............      Early to                          [-24,000]
                             need.
   45    0603564N        SHIP                     69,084          22,484
                          PRELIMINARY
                          DESIGN &
                          FEASIBILITY
                          STUDIES.
         ..............      Early to                          [-46,600]
                             need.
   46    0603570N        ADVANCED                181,652         181,652
                          NUCLEAR POWER
                          SYSTEMS.
   47    0603573N        ADVANCED                 25,408         150,408
                          SURFACE
                          MACHINERY
                          SYSTEMS.
         ..............      Surface                           [125,000]
                             combatant
                             component-
                             level
                             prototyping.
   48    0603576N        CHALK EAGLE....          64,877          64,877
   49    0603581N        LITTORAL COMBAT           9,934           9,934
                          SHIP (LCS).
   50    0603582N        COMBAT SYSTEM            17,251          17,251
                          INTEGRATION.
   51    0603595N        OHIO                    419,051         434,051
                          REPLACEMENT.
         ..............      Accelerate                         [15,000]
                             advanced
                             propulsor
                             development.
   52    0603596N        LCS MISSION             108,505         103,505
                          MODULES.
         ..............      Availabe                           [-5,000]
                             prior year
                             funds due
                             to SUW MP
                             testing
                             delay.
   53    0603597N        AUTOMATED TEST            7,653           7,653
                          AND ANALYSIS.
   54    0603599N        FRIGATE                  59,007          59,007
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   55    0603609N        CONVENTIONAL              9,988           9,988
                          MUNITIONS.
   56    0603635M        MARINE CORPS             86,464          86,464
                          GROUND COMBAT/
                          SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   57    0603654N        JOINT SERVICE            33,478          33,478
                          EXPLOSIVE
                          ORDNANCE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   58    0603713N        OCEAN                     5,619           5,619
                          ENGINEERING
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   59    0603721N        ENVIRONMENTAL            20,564          20,564
                          PROTECTION.
   60    0603724N        NAVY ENERGY              26,514          26,514
                          PROGRAM.
   61    0603725N        FACILITIES                3,440           3,440
                          IMPROVEMENT.
   62    0603734N        CHALK CORAL....         346,800         346,800
   63    0603739N        NAVY LOGISTIC             3,857           3,857
                          PRODUCTIVITY.
   64    0603746N        RETRACT MAPLE..         258,519         258,519
   65    0603748N        LINK PLUMERIA..         403,909         403,909
   66    0603751N        RETRACT ELM....          63,434          63,434
   67    0603764N        LINK EVERGREEN.         184,110         184,110
   68    0603790N        NATO RESEARCH             7,697           7,697
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   69    0603795N        LAND ATTACK               9,086           9,086
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   70    0603851M        JOINT NON-               28,466          28,466
                          LETHAL WEAPONS
                          TESTING.
   71    0603860N        JOINT PRECISION          51,341          51,341
                          APPROACH AND
                          LANDING
                          SYSTEMS--DEM/
                          VAL.
   72    0603925N        DIRECTED ENERGY         118,169         118,169
                          AND ELECTRIC
                          WEAPON SYSTEMS.
   73    0604014N        F/A -18                 113,456         113,456
                          INFRARED
                          SEARCH AND
                          TRACK (IRST).
   74    0604027N        DIGITAL WARFARE          50,120          50,120
                          OFFICE.
   75    0604028N        SMALL AND                32,527          32,527
                          MEDIUM
                          UNMANNED
                          UNDERSEA
                          VEHICLES.
   76    0604029N        UNMANNED                 54,376          54,376
                          UNDERSEA
                          VEHICLE CORE
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
   77    0604030N        RAPID                    36,197          36,197
                          PROTOTYPING,
                          EXPERIMENTATIO
                          N AND
                          DEMONSTRATION..
   78    0604031N        LARGE UNMANNED           68,310          68,310
                          UNDERSEA
                          VEHICLES.
   79    0604112N        GERALD R. FORD          121,310         121,310
                          CLASS NUCLEAR
                          AIRCRAFT
                          CARRIER (CVN
                          78--80).
   80    0604126N        LITTORAL                 17,248          17,248
                          AIRBORNE MCM.
   81    0604127N        SURFACE MINE             18,735          18,735
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S.
   82    0604272N        TACTICAL AIR             68,346          68,346
                          DIRECTIONAL
                          INFRARED
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S (TADIRCM).
   84    0604289M        NEXT GENERATION           4,420          13,420
                          LOGISTICS.
         ..............      Additive                            [9,000]
                             manufacturi
                             ng
                             logistics
                             software
                             pilot.
   85    0604320M        RAPID                     4,558           4,558
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          CAPABILITY
                          PROTOTYPE.
   86    0604454N        LX (R).........          12,500          12,500
   87    0604536N        ADVANCED                181,967         181,967
                          UNDERSEA
                          PROTOTYPING.
   88    0604636N        COUNTER                   5,500           5,500
                          UNMANNED
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEMS (C-
                          UAS).
   89    0604659N        PRECISION               718,148         723,148
                          STRIKE WEAPONS
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Increase                            [5,000]
                             for SLCM-N
                             AOA.
   90    0604707N        SPACE AND                 5,263           5,263
                          ELECTRONIC
                          WARFARE (SEW)
                          ARCHITECTURE/
                          ENGINEERING
                          SUPPORT.
   91    0604786N        OFFENSIVE ANTI-          65,419          65,419
                          SURFACE
                          WARFARE WEAPON
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   92    0303354N        ASW SYSTEMS               9,991           9,991
                          DEVELOPMENT--M
                          IP.
   93    0304240M        ADVANCED                 21,157          21,157
                          TACTICAL
                          UNMANNED
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEM.
   95    0304270N        ELECTRONIC                  609             609
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT--M
                          IP.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              5,559,062       5,275,962
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION
   96    0603208N        TRAINING SYSTEM          15,514          15,514
                          AIRCRAFT.
   97    0604212N        OTHER HELO               28,835          28,835
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   98    0604214M        AV-8B AIRCRAFT--         27,441          27,441
                          ENG DEV.
  100    0604215N        STANDARDS                 3,642           3,642
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  101    0604216N        MULTI-MISSION            19,196          19,196
                          HELICOPTER
                          UPGRADE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  104    0604230N        WARFARE SUPPORT           8,601           8,601
                          SYSTEM.
  105    0604231N        TACTICAL                 77,232          77,232
                          COMMAND SYSTEM.
  106    0604234N        ADVANCED                232,752         232,752
                          HAWKEYE.
  107    0604245M        H-1 UPGRADES...          65,359          65,359
  109    0604261N        ACOUSTIC SEARCH          47,013          47,013
                          SENSORS.
  110    0604262N        V-22A..........         185,105         190,605
         ..............      Increase                            [5,500]
                             reliability
                             and reduce
                             vibrations
                             of V-22
                             Nacelles.
  111    0604264N        AIR CREW                 21,172          21,172
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  112    0604269N        EA-18..........         143,585         143,585
  113    0604270N        ELECTRONIC              116,811         116,811
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  114    0604273M        EXECUTIVE HELO          187,436         187,436
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  116    0604274N        NEXT GENERATION         524,261         524,261
                          JAMMER (NGJ).
  117    0604280N        JOINT TACTICAL          192,345         192,345
                          RADIO SYSTEM--
                          NAVY (JTRS-
                          NAVY).
  118    0604282N        NEXT GENERATION         111,068         111,068
                          JAMMER (NGJ)
                          INCREMENT II.
  119    0604307N        SURFACE                 415,625         415,625
                          COMBATANT
                          COMBAT SYSTEM
                          ENGINEERING.
  120    0604311N        LPD-17 CLASS                640             640
                          SYSTEMS
                          INTEGRATION.
  121    0604329N        SMALL DIAMETER           50,096          50,096
                          BOMB (SDB).
  122    0604366N        STANDARD                232,391         232,391
                          MISSILE
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
  123    0604373N        AIRBORNE MCM...          10,916          10,916
  124    0604378N        NAVAL                    33,379          33,379
                          INTEGRATED
                          FIRE CONTROL--
                          COUNTER AIR
                          SYSTEMS
                          ENGINEERING.
  125    0604501N        ADVANCED ABOVE           34,554          34,554
                          WATER SENSORS.
  126    0604503N        SSN-688 AND              84,663          84,663
                          TRIDENT
                          MODERNIZATION.
  127    0604504N        AIR CONTROL....          44,923          44,923
  128    0604512N        SHIPBOARD                10,632          10,632
                          AVIATION
                          SYSTEMS.
  129    0604518N        COMBAT                   16,094          16,094
                          INFORMATION
                          CENTER
                          CONVERSION.
  130    0604522N        AIR AND MISSILE          55,349          55,349
                          DEFENSE RADAR
                          (AMDR) SYSTEM.
  131    0604530N        ADVANCED                123,490         123,490
                          ARRESTING GEAR
                          (AAG).
  132    0604558N        NEW DESIGN SSN.         121,010         121,010
  133    0604562N        SUBMARINE                62,426          62,426
                          TACTICAL
                          WARFARE SYSTEM.
  134    0604567N        SHIP CONTRACT            46,809          46,809
                          DESIGN/ LIVE
                          FIRE T&E.
  135    0604574N        NAVY TACTICAL             3,692           3,692
                          COMPUTER
                          RESOURCES.
  137    0604601N        MINE                     28,964         100,264
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      UPL                                [71,300]
                             Quickstrike
                             JDAM ER.
  138    0604610N        LIGHTWEIGHT             148,349         148,349
                          TORPEDO
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  139    0604654N        JOINT SERVICE             8,237           8,237
                          EXPLOSIVE
                          ORDNANCE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  140    0604657M        USMC GROUND              22,000          22,000
                          COMBAT/
                          SUPPORTING
                          ARMS SYSTEMS--
                          ENG DEV.
  141    0604703N        PERSONNEL,                5,500           5,500
                          TRAINING,
                          SIMULATION,
                          AND HUMAN
                          FACTORS.
  142    0604727N        JOINT STANDOFF           18,725          18,725
                          WEAPON SYSTEMS.
  143    0604755N        SHIP SELF               192,603         192,603
                          DEFENSE
                          (DETECT &
                          CONTROL).
  144    0604756N        SHIP SELF               137,268         137,268
                          DEFENSE
                          (ENGAGE: HARD
                          KILL).
  145    0604757N        SHIP SELF                97,363          97,363
                          DEFENSE
                          (ENGAGE: SOFT
                          KILL/EW).
  146    0604761N        INTELLIGENCE             26,710          26,710
                          ENGINEERING.
  147    0604771N        MEDICAL                   8,181           8,181
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  148    0604777N        NAVIGATION/ID            40,755          40,755
                          SYSTEM.
  149    0604800M        JOINT STRIKE              1,710           1,710
                          FIGHTER (JSF)--
                          EMD.
  150    0604800N        JOINT STRIKE              1,490           1,490
                          FIGHTER (JSF)--
                          EMD.
  153    0605013M        INFORMATION               1,494           1,494
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  154    0605013N        INFORMATION             384,162         328,722
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      eProcuremen                       [-55,440]
                             t program
                             duplication.
  155    0605024N        ANTI-TAMPER               4,882           4,882
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SUPPORT.
  156    0605212M        CH-53K RDTE....         516,955         506,955
         ..............      Early to                          [-10,000]
                             need.
  158    0605215N        MISSION                  75,886          75,886
                          PLANNING.
  159    0605217N        COMMON AVIONICS          43,187          43,187
  160    0605220N        SHIP TO SHORE             4,909          19,909
                          CONNECTOR
                          (SSC).
         ..............      Expand                             [15,000]
                             development
                             and use of
                             composite
                             materials.
  161    0605327N        T-AO 205 CLASS.           1,682           1,682
  162    0605414N        UNMANNED                671,258         671,258
                          CARRIER
                          AVIATION (UCA).
  163    0605450M        JOINT AIR-TO-            18,393          18,393
                          GROUND MISSILE
                          (JAGM).
  165    0605500N        MULTI-MISSION            21,472          21,472
                          MARITIME
                          AIRCRAFT (MMA).
  166    0605504N        MULTI-MISSION           177,234         177,234
                          MARITIME (MMA)
                          INCREMENT III.
  167    0605611M        MARINE CORPS             77,322          77,322
                          ASSAULT
                          VEHICLES
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
  168    0605813M        JOINT LIGHT               2,105           2,105
                          TACTICAL
                          VEHICLE (JLTV)
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
  169    0204202N        DDG-1000.......         111,435         111,435
  172    0304785N        TACTICAL                101,339         101,339
                          CRYPTOLOGIC
                          SYSTEMS.
  173    0306250M        CYBER                    26,406          26,406
                          OPERATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM       6,332,033       6,358,393
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  174    0604256N        THREAT                   66,678          66,678
                          SIMULATOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  175    0604258N        TARGET SYSTEMS           12,027          12,027
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  176    0604759N        MAJOR T&E                85,348          85,348
                          INVESTMENT.
  178    0605152N        STUDIES AND               3,908           3,908
                          ANALYSIS
                          SUPPORT--NAVY.
  179    0605154N        CENTER FOR               47,669          47,669
                          NAVAL ANALYSES.
  180    0605285N        NEXT GENERATION          20,698          20,698
                          FIGHTER.
  182    0605804N        TECHNICAL                   988             988
                          INFORMATION
                          SERVICES.
  183    0605853N        MANAGEMENT,             102,401         102,401
                          TECHNICAL &
                          INTERNATIONAL
                          SUPPORT.
  184    0605856N        STRATEGIC                 3,742           3,742
                          TECHNICAL
                          SUPPORT.
  186    0605863N        RDT&E SHIP AND           93,872          93,872
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SUPPORT.
  187    0605864N        TEST AND                394,020         394,020
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
  188    0605865N        OPERATIONAL              25,145          25,145
                          TEST AND
                          EVALUATION
                          CAPABILITY.
  189    0605866N        NAVY SPACE AND           15,773          15,773
                          ELECTRONIC
                          WARFARE (SEW)
                          SUPPORT.
  190    0605867N        SEW                       8,402           8,402
                          SURVEILLANCE/
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SUPPORT.
  191    0605873M        MARINE CORPS             37,265          37,265
                          PROGRAM WIDE
                          SUPPORT.
  192    0605898N        MANAGEMENT HQ--          39,673          39,673
                          R&D.
  193    0606355N        WARFARE                  28,750          28,750
                          INNOVATION
                          MANAGEMENT.
  196    0305327N        INSIDER THREAT.           2,645           2,645
  197    0902498N        MANAGEMENT                1,460           1,460
                          HEADQUARTERS
                          (DEPARTMENTAL
                          SUPPORT
                          ACTIVITIES).
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                990,464         990,464
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
  202    0604227N        HARPOON                   2,302           2,302
                          MODIFICATIONS.
  203    0604840M        F-35 C2D2......         422,881         422,881
  204    0604840N        F-35 C2D2......         383,741         383,741
  205    0607658N        COOPERATIVE             127,924         127,924
                          ENGAGEMENT
                          CAPABILITY
                          (CEC).
  207    0101221N        STRATEGIC SUB &         157,676         157,676
                          WEAPONS SYSTEM
                          SUPPORT.
  208    0101224N        SSBN SECURITY            43,354          43,354
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
  209    0101226N        SUBMARINE                 6,815           6,815
                          ACOUSTIC
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  210    0101402N        NAVY STRATEGIC           31,174          31,174
                          COMMUNICATIONS.
  211    0204136N        F/A-18                  213,715         213,715
                          SQUADRONS.
  213    0204228N        SURFACE SUPPORT          36,389          36,389
  214    0204229N        TOMAHAWK AND            320,134         320,134
                          TOMAHAWK
                          MISSION
                          PLANNING
                          CENTER (TMPC).
  215    0204311N        INTEGRATED               88,382         103,382
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM.
         ..............      Additional                         [15,000]
                             TRAPS units.
  216    0204313N        SHIP-TOWED               14,449          14,449
                          ARRAY
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  217    0204413N        AMPHIBIOUS                6,931           6,931
                          TACTICAL
                          SUPPORT UNITS
                          (DISPLACEMENT
                          CRAFT).
  218    0204460M        GROUND/AIR TASK          23,891          23,891
                          ORIENTED RADAR
                          (G/ATOR).
  219    0204571N        CONSOLIDATED            129,873         129,873
                          TRAINING
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  221    0204575N        ELECTRONIC               82,325          82,325
                          WARFARE (EW)
                          READINESS
                          SUPPORT.
  222    0205601N        HARM                    138,431         138,431
                          IMPROVEMENT.
  224    0205620N        SURFACE ASW              29,572          29,572
                          COMBAT SYSTEM
                          INTEGRATION.
  225    0205632N        MK-48 ADCAP....          85,973          85,973
  226    0205633N        AVIATION                125,461         125,461
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
  227    0205675N        OPERATIONAL             106,192         106,192
                          NUCLEAR POWER
                          SYSTEMS.
  228    0206313M        MARINE CORPS            143,317         143,317
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          SYSTEMS.
  229    0206335M        COMMON AVIATION           4,489           4,489
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL SYSTEM
                          (CAC2S).
  230    0206623M        MARINE CORPS             51,788          51,788
                          GROUND COMBAT/
                          SUPPORTING
                          ARMS SYSTEMS.
  231    0206624M        MARINE CORPS             37,761          42,761
                          COMBAT
                          SERVICES
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............      Airborne                            [5,000]
                             Power
                             Generation
                             Tech
                             Development.
  232    0206625M        USMC                     21,458          21,458
                          INTELLIGENCE/
                          ELECTRONIC
                          WARFARE
                          SYSTEMS (MIP).
  233    0206629M        AMPHIBIOUS                5,476           5,476
                          ASSAULT
                          VEHICLE.
  234    0207161N        TACTICAL AIM             19,488          19,488
                          MISSILES.
  235    0207163N        ADVANCED MEDIUM          39,029          39,029
                          RANGE AIR-TO-
                          AIR MISSILE
                          (AMRAAM).
  239    0303109N        SATELLITE                34,344          34,344
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          (SPACE).
  240    0303138N        CONSOLIDATED             22,873          22,873
                          AFLOAT NETWORK
                          ENTERPRISE
                          SERVICES
                          (CANES).
  241    0303140N        INFORMATION              41,853          41,853
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  243    0305192N        MILITARY                  8,913           8,913
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          PROGRAM (MIP)
                          ACTIVITIES.
  244    0305204N        TACTICAL                  9,451           9,451
                          UNMANNED
                          AERIAL
                          VEHICLES.
  245    0305205N        UAS INTEGRATION          42,315          42,315
                          AND
                          INTEROPERABILI
                          TY.
  246    0305208M        DISTRIBUTED              22,042          22,042
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  248    0305220N        MQ-4C TRITON...          11,784          11,784
  249    0305231N        MQ-8 UAV.......          29,618          29,618
  250    0305232M        RQ-11 UAV......             509             509
  251    0305234N        SMALL (LEVEL 0)          11,545          11,545
                          TACTICAL UAS
                          (STUASL0).
  252    0305239M        RQ-21A.........          10,914          10,914
  253    0305241N        MULTI-                   70,612          70,612
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          SENSOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  254    0305242M        UNMANNED AERIAL           3,704           3,704
                          SYSTEMS (UAS)
                          PAYLOADS (MIP).
  255    0305421N        RQ-4                    202,346         202,346
                          MODERNIZATION.
  256    0308601N        MODELING AND              7,119           7,119
                          SIMULATION
                          SUPPORT.
  257    0702207N        DEPOT                    38,182          38,182
                          MAINTENANCE
                          (NON-IF).
  258    0708730N        MARITIME                  6,779           6,779
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          (MARITECH).
  259    1203109N        SATELLITE                15,868          15,868
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          (SPACE).
  999    9999999999      CLASSIFIED            1,613,137       1,613,137
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              5,104,299       5,124,299
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      20,270,499      20,061,759
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          NAVY.
         ..............
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          AF
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    1    0601102F        DEFENSE                 356,107         356,107
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
    2    0601103F        UNIVERSITY              158,859         158,859
                          RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
    3    0601108F        HIGH ENERGY              14,795          14,795
                          LASER RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          529,761         529,761
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    4    0602102F        MATERIALS......         128,851         122,851
         ..............      Advanced                            [4,000]
                             materials
                             high energy
                             x-ray.
         ..............      Duplicative                       [-10,000]
                             material
                             research.
    5    0602201F        AEROSPACE               147,724         137,724
                          VEHICLE
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
         ..............      Reduce                            [-10,000]
                             program
                             growth.
    6    0602202F        HUMAN                   131,795         131,795
                          EFFECTIVENESS
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
    7    0602203F        AEROSPACE               198,775         198,775
                          PROPULSION.
    8    0602204F        AEROSPACE               202,912         202,912
                          SENSORS.
   10    0602298F        SCIENCE AND               7,968           7,968
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          MANAGEMENT--
                          MAJOR
                          HEADQUARTERS
                          ACTIVITIES.
   12    0602602F        CONVENTIONAL            142,772         142,772
                          MUNITIONS.
   13    0602605F        DIRECTED ENERGY         124,379         124,379
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   14    0602788F        DOMINANT                181,562         199,062
                          INFORMATION
                          SCIENCES AND
                          METHODS.
         ..............      Counter UAS                         [2,500]
                             cyber.
         ..............      Cyberspace                         [10,000]
                             dominance
                             technology
                             research.
         ..............      Quantum                             [5,000]
                             science.
   15    0602890F        HIGH ENERGY              44,221          49,221
                          LASER RESEARCH.
         ..............      High power                          [5,000]
                             microwave
                             research.
   16    1206601F        SPACE                   124,667         124,667
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,435,626       1,442,126
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   17    0603112F        ADVANCED                 36,586          38,586
                          MATERIALS FOR
                          WEAPON SYSTEMS.
         ..............      Metals                              [2,000]
                             affordabili
                             ty research.
   18    0603199F        SUSTAINMENT              16,249          16,249
                          SCIENCE AND
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          (S&T).
   19    0603203F        ADVANCED                 38,292          38,292
                          AEROSPACE
                          SENSORS.
   20    0603211F        AEROSPACE               102,949         307,949
                          TECHNOLOGY DEV/
                          DEMO.
         ..............      Accelerate                         [75,000]
                             air
                             breathing
                             hypersonic
                             program.
         ..............      Active                              [5,000]
                             winglets
                             development.
         ..............      Advanced                           [25,000]
                             Personnel
                             Recovery.
         ..............      LCAAT......                       [100,000]
   21    0603216F        AEROSPACE               113,973         123,973
                          PROPULSION AND
                          POWER
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Advanced                           [10,000]
                             turbine
                             engine gas
                             generator.
   22    0603270F        ELECTRONIC               48,408          38,408
                          COMBAT
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Duplicative                       [-10,000]
                             EW & PNT
                             research.
   23    0603401F        ADVANCED                 70,525          73,525
                          SPACECRAFT
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Strategic                           [3,000]
                             radiation
                             hardened
                             microelectr
                             onic
                             processors.
   24    0603444F        MAUI SPACE               11,878          11,878
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM (MSSS).
   25    0603456F        HUMAN                    37,542          37,542
                          EFFECTIVENESS
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   26    0603601F        CONVENTIONAL            225,817         225,817
                          WEAPONS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   27    0603605F        ADVANCED                 37,404          37,404
                          WEAPONS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   28    0603680F        MANUFACTURING            43,116          50,116
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Advanced                            [7,000]
                             materials
                             and
                             materials
                             manufacturi
                             ng.
   29    0603788F        BATTLESPACE              56,414          66,414
                          KNOWLEDGE
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............      Cyber                              [10,000]
                             applied
                             research.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                839,153       1,066,153
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES
   31    0603260F        INTELLIGENCE              5,672           5,672
                          ADVANCED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   32    0603742F        COMBAT                   27,085          27,085
                          IDENTIFICATION
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   33    0603790F        NATO RESEARCH             4,955           4,955
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   34    0603851F        INTERCONTINENTA          44,109          44,109
                          L BALLISTIC
                          MISSILE--DEM/
                          VAL.
   36    0604002F        AIR FORCE                   772             772
                          WEATHER
                          SERVICES
                          RESEARCH.
   37    0604004F        ADVANCED ENGINE         878,442         878,442
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   38    0604015F        LONG RANGE            3,003,899       3,003,899
                          STRIKE--BOMBER.
   39    0604032F        DIRECTED ENERGY          10,000          10,000
                          PROTOTYPING.
   40    0604033F        HYPERSONICS             576,000         576,000
                          PROTOTYPING.
   41    0604201F        PNT RESILIENCY,          92,600         124,600
                          MODS, AND
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
         ..............      UPL M-CODE                         [32,000]
                             acceleratio
                             n.
   42    0604257F        ADVANCED                 23,145          23,145
                          TECHNOLOGY AND
                          SENSORS.
   43    0604288F        NATIONAL                 16,669          16,669
                          AIRBORNE OPS
                          CENTER (NAOC)
                          RECAP.
   44    0604317F        TECHNOLOGY               23,614          23,614
                          TRANSFER.
   45    0604327F        HARD AND DEEPLY         113,121         113,121
                          BURIED TARGET
                          DEFEAT SYSTEM
                          (HDBTDS)
                          PROGRAM.
   46    0604414F        CYBER                    56,325          56,325
                          RESILIENCY OF
                          WEAPON SYSTEMS-
                          ACS.
   47    0604776F        DEPLOYMENT &             28,034          28,034
                          DISTRIBUTION
                          ENTERPRISE R&D.
   48    0604858F        TECH TRANSITION         128,476         134,476
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Rapid                               [6,000]
                             repair.
   49    0605230F        GROUND BASED            570,373         592,373
                          STRATEGIC
                          DETERRENT.
         ..............      Program                            [22,000]
                             consolidati
                             on.
   50    0207100F        LIGHT ATTACK             35,000          85,000
                          ARMED
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          (LAAR)
                          SQUADRONS.
         ..............      Light                              [50,000]
                             attack
                             experiment.
   51    0207110F        NEXT GENERATION       1,000,000       1,000,000
                          AIR DOMINANCE.
   52    0207455F        THREE                    37,290          37,290
                          DIMENSIONAL
                          LONG-RANGE
                          RADAR (3DELRR).
   53    0208099F        UNIFIED                  10,000          10,000
                          PLATFORM (UP).
   54    0305236F        COMMON DATA              36,910          36,910
                          LINK EXECUTIVE
                          AGENT (CDL EA).
   55    0305251F        CYBERSPACE               35,000          35,000
                          OPERATIONS
                          FORCES AND
                          FORCE SUPPORT.
   56    0305601F        MISSION PARTNER           8,550           8,550
                          ENVIRONMENTS.
   57    0306250F        CYBER                   198,864         240,064
                          OPERATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Accelerate                         [13,600]
                             development
                             of Cyber
                             National
                             Mission
                             Force
                             capabilitie
                             s.
         ..............      ETERNALDARK                         [7,100]
                             NESS.
         ..............      Joint                              [20,500]
                             Common
                             Access
                             Platform.
   58    0306415F        ENABLED CYBER            16,632          16,632
                          ACTIVITIES.
   60    0901410F        CONTRACTING              20,830          20,830
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SYSTEM.
   61    1203164F        NAVSTAR GLOBAL          329,948         329,948
                          POSITIONING
                          SYSTEM (USER
                          EQUIPMENT)
                          (SPACE).
   62    1203710F        EO/IR WEATHER           101,222         101,222
                          SYSTEMS.
   63    1206422F        WEATHER SYSTEM          225,660         225,660
                          FOLLOW-ON.
   64    1206425F        SPACE SITUATION          29,776          29,776
                          AWARENESS
                          SYSTEMS.
   65    1206427F        SPACE SYSTEMS           142,045         142,045
                          PROTOTYPE
                          TRANSITIONS
                          (SSPT).
   67    1206438F        SPACE CONTROL            64,231          64,231
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   68    1206730F        SPACE SECURITY           56,385          56,385
                          AND DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
   69    1206760F        PROTECTED               105,003          95,003
                          TACTICAL
                          ENTERPRISE
                          SERVICE (PTES).
         ..............      Unjustified                       [-10,000]
                             growth.
   70    1206761F        PROTECTED               173,694         163,694
                          TACTICAL
                          SERVICE (PTS).
         ..............      Unjustified                       [-10,000]
                             growth.
   71    1206855F        EVOLVED                 172,206         172,206
                          STRATEGIC
                          SATCOM (ESS).
   72    1206857F        SPACE RAPID              33,742          33,742
                          CAPABILITIES
                          OFFICE.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              8,436,279       8,567,479
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION
   73    0604200F        FUTURE ADVANCED         246,200          97,120
                          WEAPON
                          ANALYSIS &
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............      ERWn                             [-149,080]
                             contract
                             delay.
   74    0604201F        PNT RESILIENCY,          67,782         148,782
                          MODS, AND
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
         ..............      UPL M-Code                         [81,000]
                             Acceleratio
                             n.
   75    0604222F        NUCLEAR WEAPONS           4,406           4,406
                          SUPPORT.
   76    0604270F        ELECTRONIC                2,066           2,066
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   77    0604281F        TACTICAL DATA           229,631         229,631
                          NETWORKS
                          ENTERPRISE.
   78    0604287F        PHYSICAL                  9,700           9,700
                          SECURITY
                          EQUIPMENT.
   79    0604329F        SMALL DIAMETER           31,241          31,241
                          BOMB (SDB)--
                          EMD.
   80    0604429F        AIRBORNE                      2               2
                          ELECTRONIC
                          ATTACK.
   81    0604602F        ARMAMENT/                28,043          28,043
                          ORDNANCE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   82    0604604F        SUBMUNITIONS...           3,045           3,045
   83    0604617F        AGILE COMBAT             19,944          19,944
                          SUPPORT.
   84    0604706F        LIFE SUPPORT              8,624           8,624
                          SYSTEMS.
   85    0604735F        COMBAT TRAINING          37,365          37,365
                          RANGES.
   86    0604800F        F-35--EMD......           7,628           7,628
   87    0604932F        LONG RANGE              712,539         712,539
                          STANDOFF
                          WEAPON.
   88    0604933F        ICBM FUZE               161,199         161,199
                          MODERNIZATION.
   89    0605030F        JOINT TACTICAL            2,414           2,414
                          NETWORK CENTER
                          (JTNC).
   91    0605056F        OPEN                     30,000          30,000
                          ARCHITECTURE
                          MANAGEMENT.
   93    0605221F        KC-46..........          59,561          59,561
   94    0605223F        ADVANCED PILOT          348,473         348,473
                          TRAINING.
   95    0605229F        COMBAT RESCUE           247,047         247,047
                          HELICOPTER.
   98    0605931F        B-2 DEFENSIVE           294,400         294,400
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SYSTEM.
   99    0101125F        NUCLEAR WEAPONS          27,564          27,564
                          MODERNIZATION.
  100    0101213F        MINUTEMAN                     1               1
                          SQUADRONS.
  101    0207171F        F-15 EPAWSS....          47,322          47,322
  102    0207328F        STAND IN ATTACK         162,840         162,840
                          WEAPON.
  103    0207701F        FULL COMBAT               9,797           9,797
                          MISSION
                          TRAINING.
  106    0401310F        C-32 EXECUTIVE            9,930           9,930
                          TRANSPORT
                          RECAPITALIZATI
                          ON.
  107    0401319F        VC-25B.........         757,923         757,923
  108    0701212F        AUTOMATED TEST            2,787           2,787
                          SYSTEMS.
  109    1203176F        COMBAT SURVIVOR           2,000           2,000
                          EVADER LOCATOR.
  110    1203269F        GPS III FOLLOW-         462,875         462,875
                          ON (GPS IIIF).
  111    1203940F        SPACE SITUATION          76,829          76,829
                          AWARENESS
                          OPERATIONS.
  112    1206421F        COUNTERSPACE             29,037          29,037
                          SYSTEMS.
  113    1206422F        WEATHER SYSTEM            2,237           2,237
                          FOLLOW-ON.
  114    1206425F        SPACE SITUATION         412,894         412,894
                          AWARENESS
                          SYSTEMS.
  115    1206426F        SPACE FENCE....               0          20,000
         ..............      Space Fence                        [20,000]
  116    1206431F        ADVANCED EHF            117,290         117,290
                          MILSATCOM
                          (SPACE).
  117    1206432F        POLAR MILSATCOM         427,400         427,400
                          (SPACE).
  118    1206433F        WIDEBAND GLOBAL           1,920           1,920
                          SATCOM (SPACE).
  119    1206441F        SPACE BASED                   1               1
                          INFRARED
                          SYSTEM (SBIRS)
                          HIGH EMD.
  120    1206442F        NEXT GENERATION       1,395,278       1,395,278
                          OPIR.
  122    1206853F        NATIONAL                432,009         432,009
                          SECURITY SPACE
                          LAUNCH PROGRAM
                          (SPACE)--EMD.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM       6,929,244       6,881,164
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  123    0604256F        THREAT                   59,693          59,693
                          SIMULATOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  124    0604759F        MAJOR T&E               181,663         232,663
                          INVESTMENT.
         ..............      UPL M-Code                         [36,000]
                             Acceleratio
                             n.
         ..............      Utah                               [15,000]
                             training
                             range
                             instrumenta
                             tion.
  125    0605101F        RAND PROJECT             35,258          35,258
                          AIR FORCE.
  127    0605712F        INITIAL                  13,793          13,793
                          OPERATIONAL
                          TEST &
                          EVALUATION.
  128    0605807F        TEST AND                717,895         771,895
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............      Acelerate                           [5,000]
                             prototype
                             program.
         ..............      Facilitates                        [49,000]
                             5G test and
                             evaluation.
  129    0605826F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          258,667         258,667
                          GLOBAL POWER.
  130    0605827F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          251,992         251,992
                          GLOBAL VIG &
                          COMBAT SYS.
  131    0605828F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          149,191         149,191
                          GLOBAL REACH.
  132    0605829F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          235,360         235,360
                          CYBER,
                          NETWORK, & BUS
                          SYS.
  133    0605830F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          160,196         160,196
                          GLOBAL BATTLE
                          MGMT.
  134    0605831F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          220,255         220,255
                          CAPABILITY
                          INTEGRATION.
  135    0605832F        ACQ WORKFORCE-           42,392          42,392
                          ADVANCED PRGM
                          TECHNOLOGY.
  136    0605833F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          133,231         133,231
                          NUCLEAR
                          SYSTEMS.
  137    0605898F        MANAGEMENT HQ--           5,590           5,590
                          R&D.
  138    0605976F        FACILITIES               88,445          88,445
                          RESTORATION
                          AND
                          MODERNIZATION-
                          -TEST AND
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
  139    0605978F        FACILITIES               29,424          29,424
                          SUSTAINMENT--T
                          EST AND
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
  140    0606017F        REQUIREMENTS             62,715          62,715
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          MATURATION.
  141    0606398F        MANAGEMENT HQ--           5,013           5,013
                          T&E.
  142    0308602F        ENTEPRISE                17,128          17,128
                          INFORMATION
                          SERVICES (EIS).
  143    0702806F        ACQUISITION AND           5,913           5,913
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
  144    0804731F        GENERAL SKILL             1,475           1,475
                          TRAINING.
  146    1001004F        INTERNATIONAL             4,071           4,071
                          ACTIVITIES.
  147    1206116F        SPACE TEST AND           19,942          19,942
                          TRAINING RANGE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  148    1206392F        SPACE AND               167,810         167,810
                          MISSILE CENTER
                          (SMC) CIVILIAN
                          WORKFORCE.
  149    1206398F        SPACE & MISSILE          10,170          10,170
                          SYSTEMS
                          CENTER--MHA.
  150    1206860F        ROCKET SYSTEMS           13,192          13,192
                          LAUNCH PROGRAM
                          (SPACE).
  151    1206864F        SPACE TEST               26,097          26,097
                          PROGRAM (STP).
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              2,916,571       3,021,571
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
  152    0604003F        ADVANCED BATTLE          35,611          84,611
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SYSTEM (ABMS).
         ..............      Accelerates                        [49,000]
                             5G military
                             use.
  154    0604233F        SPECIALIZED               2,584           2,584
                          UNDERGRADUATE
                          FLIGHT
                          TRAINING.
  156    0604776F        DEPLOYMENT &                903             903
                          DISTRIBUTION
                          ENTERPRISE R&D.
  157    0604840F        F-35 C2D2......         694,455         694,455
  158    0605018F        AF INTEGRATED            40,567               0
                          PERSONNEL AND
                          PAY SYSTEM (AF-
                          IPPS).
         ..............      Poor agile                        [-40,567]
                             development.
  159    0605024F        ANTI-TAMPER              47,193          47,193
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          EXECUTIVE
                          AGENCY.
  160    0605117F        FOREIGN                  70,083          70,083
                          MATERIEL
                          ACQUISITION
                          AND
                          EXPLOITATION.
  161    0605278F        HC/MC-130 RECAP          17,218           4,818
                          RDT&E.
         ..............      program                           [-12,400]
                             delay.
  162    0606018F        NC3 INTEGRATION          25,917          25,917
  164    0101113F        B-52 SQUADRONS.         325,974         325,974
  165    0101122F        AIR-LAUNCHED             10,217          10,217
                          CRUISE MISSILE
                          (ALCM).
  166    0101126F        B-1B SQUADRONS.           1,000           1,000
  167    0101127F        B-2 SQUADRONS..          97,276          97,276
  168    0101213F        MINUTEMAN               128,961         106,961
                          SQUADRONS.
         ..............      Program                           [-22,000]
                             consolidati
                             on.
  170    0101316F        WORLDWIDE JOINT          18,177          18,177
                          STRATEGIC
                          COMMUNICATIONS.
  171    0101324F        INTEGRATED               24,261          24,261
                          STRATEGIC
                          PLANNING &
                          ANALYSIS
                          NETWORK.
  172    0101328F        ICBM REENTRY             75,571          75,571
                          VEHICLES.
  174    0102110F        UH-1N                   170,975         170,975
                          REPLACEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  176    0205219F        MQ-9 UAV.......         154,996         154,996
  178    0207131F        A-10 SQUADRONS.          36,816          36,816
  179    0207133F        F-16 SQUADRONS.         193,013         193,013
  180    0207134F        F-15E SQUADRONS         336,079         336,079
  181    0207136F        MANNED                   15,521          15,521
                          DESTRUCTIVE
                          SUPPRESSION.
  182    0207138F        F-22A SQUADRONS         496,298         496,298
  183    0207142F        F-35 SQUADRONS.          99,943          99,943
  184    0207161F        TACTICAL AIM             10,314          10,314
                          MISSILES.
  185    0207163F        ADVANCED MEDIUM          55,384          55,384
                          RANGE AIR-TO-
                          AIR MISSILE
                          (AMRAAM).
  186    0207227F        COMBAT RESCUE--             281             281
                          PARARESCUE.
  187    0207247F        AF TENCAP......          21,365          21,365
  188    0207249F        PRECISION                10,696          10,696
                          ATTACK SYSTEMS
                          PROCUREMENT.
  189    0207253F        COMPASS CALL...          15,888          15,888
  190    0207268F        AIRCRAFT ENGINE         112,505         112,505
                          COMPONENT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  191    0207325F        JOINT AIR-TO-            78,498          78,498
                          SURFACE
                          STANDOFF
                          MISSILE
                          (JASSM).
  192    0207410F        AIR & SPACE             114,864         114,864
                          OPERATIONS
                          CENTER (AOC).
  193    0207412F        CONTROL AND               8,109           8,109
                          REPORTING
                          CENTER (CRC).
  194    0207417F        AIRBORNE                 67,996          67,996
                          WARNING AND
                          CONTROL SYSTEM
                          (AWACS).
  195    0207418F        TACTICAL                  2,462           2,462
                          AIRBORNE
                          CONTROL
                          SYSTEMS.
  197    0207431F        COMBAT AIR               13,668          13,668
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          SYSTEM
                          ACTIVITIES.
  198    0207444F        TACTICAL AIR              6,217           6,217
                          CONTROL PARTY-
                          MOD.
  200    0207452F        DCAPES.........          19,910          19,910
  201    0207573F        NATIONAL                  1,788           1,788
                          TECHNICAL
                          NUCLEAR
                          FORENSICS.
  202    0207590F        SEEK EAGLE.....          28,237          28,237
  203    0207601F        USAF MODELING            15,725          15,725
                          AND SIMULATION.
  204    0207605F        WARGAMING AND             4,316           4,316
                          SIMULATION
                          CENTERS.
  205    0207610F        BATTLEFIELD ABN          26,946          26,946
                          COMM NODE
                          (BACN).
  206    0207697F        DISTRIBUTED               4,303           4,303
                          TRAINING AND
                          EXERCISES.
  207    0208006F        MISSION                  71,465          71,465
                          PLANNING
                          SYSTEMS.
  208    0208007F        TACTICAL                  7,446           7,446
                          DECEPTION.
  209    0208064F        OPERATIONAL HQ--          7,602           7,602
                          CYBER.
  210    0208087F        DISTRIBUTED              35,178          35,178
                          CYBER WARFARE
                          OPERATIONS.
  211    0208088F        AF DEFENSIVE             16,609          16,609
                          CYBERSPACE
                          OPERATIONS.
  212    0208097F        JOINT CYBER              11,603          11,603
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL (JCC2).
  213    0208099F        UNIFIED                  84,702          84,702
                          PLATFORM (UP).
  218    0301004F        ADVANCED DATA                 0          21,000
                          TRANSPORT
                          FLIGHT TEST.
         ..............      Accelerate                         [21,000]
                             prototype
                             test of 5G.
  219    0301025F        GEOBASE........           2,723           2,723
  220    0301112F        NUCLEAR                  44,190          44,190
                          PLANNING AND
                          EXECUTION
                          SYSTEM (NPES).
  226    0301401F        AIR FORCE SPACE           3,575           3,575
                          AND CYBER NON-
                          TRADITIONAL
                          ISR FOR
                          BATTLESPACE
                          AWARENESS.
  227    0302015F        E-4B NATIONAL            70,173          70,173
                          AIRBORNE
                          OPERATIONS
                          CENTER (NAOC).
  228    0303131F        MINIMUM                  13,543          13,543
                          ESSENTIAL
                          EMERGENCY
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          NETWORK
                          (MEECN).
  229    0303133F        HIGH FREQUENCY           15,881          15,881
                          RADIO SYSTEMS.
  230    0303140F        INFORMATION              27,726          27,726
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  232    0303142F        GLOBAL FORCE              2,210           2,210
                          MANAGEMENT--DA
                          TA INITIATIVE.
  234    0304115F        MULTI DOMAIN            150,880         150,880
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL (MDC2).
  235    0304260F        AIRBORNE SIGINT         102,667         102,667
                          ENTERPRISE.
  236    0304310F        COMMERCIAL                3,431           3,431
                          ECONOMIC
                          ANALYSIS.
  239    0305015F        C2 AIR                    9,313           9,313
                          OPERATIONS
                          SUITE--C2 INFO
                          SERVICES.
  240    0305020F        CCMD                      1,121           1,121
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY.
  241    0305022F        ISR                      19,000               0
                          MODERNIZATION
                          & AUTOMATION
                          DVMT (IMAD).
         ..............      Not mature                        [-19,000]
                             plan.
  242    0305099F        GLOBAL AIR                4,544           4,544
                          TRAFFIC
                          MANAGEMENT
                          (GATM).
  243    0305111F        WEATHER SERVICE          25,461          25,461
  244    0305114F        AIR TRAFFIC               5,651           5,651
                          CONTROL,
                          APPROACH, AND
                          LANDING SYSTEM
                          (ATCALS).
  245    0305116F        AERIAL TARGETS.           7,448           7,448
  248    0305128F        SECURITY AND                425             425
                          INVESTIGATIVE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  249    0305145F        ARMS CONTROL             54,546          54,546
                          IMPLEMENTATION.
  250    0305146F        DEFENSE JOINT             6,858           6,858
                          COUNTERINTELLI
                          GENCE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  252    0305179F        INTEGRATED                8,728           8,728
                          BROADCAST
                          SERVICE (IBS).
  253    0305202F        DRAGON U-2.....          38,939          38,939
  255    0305206F        AIRBORNE                122,909         122,909
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  256    0305207F        MANNED                   11,787          11,787
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  257    0305208F        DISTRIBUTED              25,009          25,009
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  258    0305220F        RQ-4 UAV.......         191,733         191,733
  259    0305221F        NETWORK-CENTRIC          10,757          10,757
                          COLLABORATIVE
                          TARGETING.
  260    0305238F        NATO AGS.......          32,567          32,567
  261    0305240F        SUPPORT TO DCGS          37,774          37,774
                          ENTERPRISE.
  262    0305600F        INTERNATIONAL            13,515          13,515
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          TECHNOLOGY AND
                          ARCHITECTURES.
  263    0305881F        RAPID CYBER               4,383           4,383
                          ACQUISITION.
  264    0305984F        PERSONNEL                 2,133           2,133
                          RECOVERY
                          COMMAND & CTRL
                          (PRC2).
  265    0307577F        INTELLIGENCE              8,614           8,614
                          MISSION DATA
                          (IMD).
  266    0401115F        C-130 AIRLIFT           140,425         140,425
                          SQUADRON.
  267    0401119F        C-5 AIRLIFT              10,223          10,223
                          SQUADRONS (IF).
  268    0401130F        C-17 AIRCRAFT            25,101          25,101
                          (IF).
  269    0401132F        C-130J PROGRAM.           8,640           8,640
  270    0401134F        LARGE AIRCRAFT            5,424           5,424
                          IR
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S (LAIRCM).
  272    0401219F        KC-10S.........              20              20
  274    0401318F        CV-22..........          17,906          17,906
  276    0408011F        SPECIAL TACTICS           3,629           3,629
                          / COMBAT
                          CONTROL.
  277    0702207F        DEPOT                     1,890           1,890
                          MAINTENANCE
                          (NON-IF).
  278    0708055F        MAINTENANCE,             10,311          10,311
                          REPAIR &
                          OVERHAUL
                          SYSTEM.
  279    0708610F        LOGISTICS                16,065          16,065
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          (LOGIT).
  280    0708611F        SUPPORT SYSTEMS             539             539
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  281    0804743F        OTHER FLIGHT              2,057           2,057
                          TRAINING.
  282    0808716F        OTHER PERSONNEL              10              10
                          ACTIVITIES.
  283    0901202F        JOINT PERSONNEL           2,060           2,060
                          RECOVERY
                          AGENCY.
  284    0901218F        CIVILIAN                  3,809           3,809
                          COMPENSATION
                          PROGRAM.
  285    0901220F        PERSONNEL                 6,476           6,476
                          ADMINISTRATION.
  286    0901226F        AIR FORCE                 1,443           1,443
                          STUDIES AND
                          ANALYSIS
                          AGENCY.
  287    0901538F        FINANCIAL                 9,323           9,323
                          MANAGEMENT
                          INFORMATION
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  288    0901554F        DEFENSE                  46,789          46,789
                          ENTERPRISE
                          ACNTNG AND MGT
                          SYS (DEAMS).
  289    1201017F        GLOBAL SENSOR             3,647           3,647
                          INTEGRATED ON
                          NETWORK (GSIN).
  290    1201921F        SERVICE SUPPORT             988             988
                          TO STRATCOM--
                          SPACE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  291    1202140F        SERVICE SUPPORT          11,863          11,863
                          TO SPACECOM
                          ACTIVITIES.
  293    1203001F        FAMILY OF               197,388         197,388
                          ADVANCED BLOS
                          TERMINALS (FAB-
                          T).
  294    1203110F        SATELLITE                61,891          61,891
                          CONTROL
                          NETWORK
                          (SPACE).
  297    1203173F        SPACE AND                 4,566           4,566
                          MISSILE TEST
                          AND EVALUATION
                          CENTER.
  298    1203174F        SPACE                    43,292          43,292
                          INNOVATION,
                          INTEGRATION
                          AND RAPID
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  300    1203182F        SPACELIFT RANGE          10,837          10,837
                          SYSTEM (SPACE).
  301    1203265F        GPS III SPACE            42,440          42,440
                          SEGMENT.
  302    1203400F        SPACE                    14,428          14,428
                          SUPERIORITY
                          INTELLIGENCE.
  303    1203614F        JSPOC MISSION            72,762          72,762
                          SYSTEM.
  304    1203620F        NATIONAL SPACE            2,653           2,653
                          DEFENSE CENTER.
  306    1203873F        BALLISTIC                15,881          15,881
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE RADARS.
  308    1203913F        NUDET DETECTION          49,300          49,300
                          SYSTEM (SPACE).
  309    1203940F        SPACE SITUATION          17,834          17,834
                          AWARENESS
                          OPERATIONS.
  310    1206423F        GLOBAL                  445,302         445,302
                          POSITIONING
                          SYSTEM III--
                          OPERATIONAL
                          CONTROL
                          SEGMENT.
  311    1206770F        ENTERPRISE              138,870         138,870
                          GROUND
                          SERVICES.
  999    9999999999      CLASSIFIED           18,029,506      18,351,506
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............      Transfer                          [322,000]
                             back to
                             base
                             funding.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL             24,529,488      24,827,521
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      45,616,122      46,335,775
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          AF.
         ..............
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DW
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    1    0601000BR       DTRA BASIC               26,000          26,000
                          RESEARCH.
    2    0601101E        DEFENSE                 432,284         432,284
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
    3    0601110D8Z      BASIC RESEARCH           48,874          58,874
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............      DEPSCOR....                        [10,000]
    4    0601117E        BASIC                    54,122          54,122
                          OPERATIONAL
                          MEDICAL
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCE.
    5    0601120D8Z      NATIONAL                 92,074         102,074
                          DEFENSE
                          EDUCATION
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Submarine                          [10,000]
                             industrial
                             base
                             workforce
                             training
                             and
                             education.
    6    0601228D8Z      HISTORICALLY             30,708          32,708
                          BLACK COLLEGES
                          AND
                          UNIVERSITIES/
                          MINORITY
                          INSTITUTIONS.
         ..............      Aerospace                           [2,000]
                             research
                             and
                             education.
    7    0601384BP       CHEMICAL AND             45,238          45,238
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          729,300         751,300
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    8    0602000D8Z      JOINT MUNITIONS          19,306          19,306
                          TECHNOLOGY.
    9    0602115E        BIOMEDICAL               97,771          97,771
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   11    0602234D8Z      LINCOLN                  52,317          52,317
                          LABORATORY
                          RESEARCH
                          PROGRAM.
   12    0602251D8Z      APPLIED                  62,200          64,200
                          RESEARCH FOR
                          THE
                          ADVANCEMENT OF
                          S&T PRIORITIES.
         ..............      Computer                            [2,000]
                             modeling of
                             PFAS.
   13    0602303E        INFORMATION &           442,556         442,556
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   14    0602383E        BIOLOGICAL               34,588          34,588
                          WARFARE
                          DEFENSE.
   15    0602384BP       CHEMICAL AND            202,587         202,587
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
   16    0602668D8Z      CYBER SECURITY           15,118          25,118
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Academic                           [10,000]
                             cyber
                             institutes.
   17    0602702E        TACTICAL                337,602         337,602
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   18    0602715E        MATERIALS AND           223,976         223,976
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   19    0602716E        ELECTRONICS             332,192         332,192
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   20    0602718BR       COUNTER WEAPONS         179,096         179,096
                          OF MASS
                          DESTRUCTION
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   21    0602751D8Z      SOFTWARE                  9,580           9,580
                          ENGINEERING
                          INSTITUTE
                          (SEI) APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   22    1160401BB       SOF TECHNOLOGY           40,569          40,569
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              2,049,458       2,061,458
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   23    0603000D8Z      JOINT MUNITIONS          25,779          25,779
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   24    0603121D8Z      SO/LIC ADVANCED           5,000           5,000
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   25    0603122D8Z      COMBATING                70,517          70,517
                          TERRORISM
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SUPPORT.
   26    0603133D8Z      FOREIGN                  24,970          24,970
                          COMPARATIVE
                          TESTING.
   28    0603160BR       COUNTER WEAPONS         340,065         340,065
                          OF MASS
                          DESTRUCTION
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   29    0603176C        ADVANCED                 14,208          14,208
                          CONCEPTS AND
                          PERFORMANCE
                          ASSESSMENT.
   30    0603178C        WEAPONS                  10,000          10,000
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   31    0603180C        ADVANCED                 20,674          20,674
                          RESEARCH.
   32    0603225D8Z      JOINT DOD-DOE            18,773          18,773
                          MUNITIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   33    0603286E        ADVANCED                279,741         279,741
                          AEROSPACE
                          SYSTEMS.
   34    0603287E        SPACE PROGRAMS          202,606         202,606
                          AND TECHNOLOGY.
   35    0603288D8Z      ANALYTIC                 19,429          19,429
                          ASSESSMENTS.
   36    0603289D8Z      ADVANCED                 37,645          37,645
                          INNOVATIVE
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          CONCEPTS.
   37    0603291D8Z      ADVANCED                 14,668          14,668
                          INNOVATIVE
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          CONCEPTS--MHA.
   38    0603294C        COMMON KILL              13,600          13,600
                          VEHICLE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   40    0603342D8Z      DEFENSE                  29,398          36,898
                          INNOVATION
                          UNIT (DIU).
         ..............      Accelerate                          [7,500]
                             Artificial
                             Intelligenc
                             e solutions.
   41    0603375D8Z      TECHNOLOGY               60,000          60,000
                          INNOVATION.
   42    0603384BP       CHEMICAL AND            172,486         172,486
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM--ADVAN
                          CED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   43    0603527D8Z      RETRACT LARCH..         159,688         159,688
   44    0603618D8Z      JOINT                    12,063          12,063
                          ELECTRONIC
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   45    0603648D8Z      JOINT                   107,359          89,859
                          CAPABILITY
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEMONSTRATIONS.
         ..............      Program                           [-17,500]
                             reduction.
   46    0603662D8Z      NETWORKED                 2,858           2,858
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          CAPABILITIES.
   47    0603680D8Z      DEFENSE-WIDE             96,397          96,397
                          MANUFACTURING
                          SCIENCE AND
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
   48    0603680S        MANUFACTURING            42,834          42,834
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
   49    0603699D8Z      EMERGING                 80,911          70,911
                          CAPABILITIES
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Program                           [-10,000]
                             reduction.
   50    0603712S        GENERIC                  10,817          10,817
                          LOGISTICS R&D
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEMONSTRATIONS.
   51    0603716D8Z      STRATEGIC                66,157          76,157
                          ENVIRONMENTAL
                          RESEARCH
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      SERDP......                        [10,000]
   52    0603720S        MICROELECTRONIC         171,771         171,771
                          S TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND SUPPORT.
   53    0603727D8Z      JOINT                     4,846           4,846
                          WARFIGHTING
                          PROGRAM.
   54    0603739E        ADVANCED                128,616         128,616
                          ELECTRONICS
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
   55    0603760E        COMMAND,                232,134         232,134
                          CONTROL AND
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          SYSTEMS.
   56    0603766E        NETWORK-CENTRIC         512,424         512,424
                          WARFARE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   57    0603767E        SENSOR                  163,903         163,903
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   58    0603769D8Z      DISTRIBUTED              13,723          13,723
                          LEARNING
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   59    0603781D8Z      SOFTWARE                 15,111          15,111
                          ENGINEERING
                          INSTITUTE.
   60    0603826D8Z      QUICK REACTION           47,147          47,147
                          SPECIAL
                          PROJECTS.
   61    0603833D8Z      ENGINEERING              19,376          19,376
                          SCIENCE &
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   62    0603924D8Z      HIGH ENERGY              85,223          85,223
                          LASER ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
   63    0603941D8Z      TEST &                  175,574         185,574
                          EVALUATION
                          SCIENCE &
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Program                            [10,000]
                             increase to
                             support NDS
                             technologie
                             s.
   64    0603950D8Z      NATIONAL                 25,000          25,000
                          SECURITY
                          INNOVATION
                          NETWORK.
   65    0604055D8Z      OPERATIONAL              70,536          70,536
                          ENERGY
                          CAPABILITY
                          IMPROVEMENT.
   66    0303310D8Z      CWMD SYSTEMS...          28,907          28,907
   68    1160402BB       SOF ADVANCED             89,154          89,154
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   69    1206310SDA      SPACE SCIENCE            20,000          20,000
                          AND TECHNOLOGY
                          RESEARCH AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              3,742,088       3,742,088
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND PROTOTYPES
   70    0603161D8Z      NUCLEAR AND              42,695          42,695
                          CONVENTIONAL
                          PHYSICAL
                          SECURITY
                          EQUIPMENT
                          RDT&E ADC&P.
   71    0603600D8Z      WALKOFF........          92,791          92,791
   72    0603821D8Z      ACQUISITION               5,659           5,659
                          ENTERPRISE
                          DATA &
                          INFORMATION
                          SERVICES.
   73    0603851D8Z      ENVIRONMENTAL            66,572          76,572
                          SECURITY
                          TECHNICAL
                          CERTIFICATION
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      ESTCP......                        [10,000]
   74    0603881C        BALLISTIC               302,761         302,761
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          TERMINAL
                          DEFENSE
                          SEGMENT.
   75    0603882C        BALLISTIC             1,156,506       1,156,506
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          MIDCOURSE
                          DEFENSE
                          SEGMENT.
   76    0603884BP       CHEMICAL AND             83,662          83,662
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM--DEM/
                          VAL.
   77    0603884C        BALLISTIC               283,487         283,487
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          SENSORS.
   78    0603890C        BMD ENABLING            571,507         571,507
                          PROGRAMS.
   79    0603891C        SPECIAL                 377,098         502,098
                          PROGRAMS--MDA.
         ..............      Classified.                       [125,000]
   80    0603892C        AEGIS BMD......         727,479         727,479
   81    0603896C        BALLISTIC               564,206         564,206
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL,
                          BATTLE
                          MANAGEMENT AND
                          COMMUNICATI.
   82    0603898C        BALLISTIC                51,532          51,532
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE JOINT
                          WARFIGHTER
                          SUPPORT.
   83    0603904C        MISSILE DEFENSE          56,161          56,161
                          INTEGRATION &
                          OPERATIONS
                          CENTER (MDIOC).
   84    0603906C        REGARDING                22,424          22,424
                          TRENCH.
   85    0603907C        SEA BASED X-            128,156         128,156
                          BAND RADAR
                          (SBX).
   86    0603913C        ISRAELI                 300,000         300,000
                          COOPERATIVE
                          PROGRAMS.
   87    0603914C        BALLISTIC               395,924         395,924
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE TEST.
   88    0603915C        BALLISTIC               554,171         554,171
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          TARGETS.
   89    0603920D8Z      HUMANITARIAN             10,820          10,820
                          DEMINING.
   90    0603923D8Z      COALITION                11,316          11,316
                          WARFARE.
   91    0604016D8Z      DEPARTMENT OF             3,365           3,365
                          DEFENSE
                          CORROSION
                          PROGRAM.
   92    0604115C        TECHNOLOGY              303,458         269,458
                          MATURATION
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............      Neutral                           [-34,000]
                             particle
                             beam.
   93    0604132D8Z      MISSILE DEFEAT           17,816          17,816
                          PROJECT.
   95    0604181C        HYPERSONIC              157,425         157,425
                          DEFENSE.
   96    0604250D8Z      ADVANCED              1,312,735       1,343,735
                          INNOVATIVE
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
         ..............      Hyperveloci                        [81,000]
                             ty Gun
                             Weapon
                             System.
         ..............      Unjustified                       [-50,000]
                             growth to
                             SCO.
   97    0604294D8Z      TRUSTED &               542,421         547,421
                          ASSURED
                          MICROELECTRONI
                          CS.
         ..............      Trusted and                         [5,000]
                             assured
                             microelectr
                             onics
                             research.
   98    0604331D8Z      RAPID                   100,957          50,957
                          PROTOTYPING
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Uncoordinat                       [-50,000]
                             ed
                             prototyping
                             efforts.
   99    0604341D8Z      DEFENSE                  92,000          92,000
                          INNOVATION
                          UNIT (DIU)
                          PROTOTYPING.
  100    0604400D8Z      DEPARTMENT OF             3,021           3,021
                          DEFENSE (DOD)
                          UNMANNED
                          SYSTEM COMMON
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  102    0604672C        HOMELAND                274,714         274,714
                          DEFENSE RADAR--
                          HAWAII (HDR-H).
  103    0604673C        PACIFIC                   6,711           6,711
                          DISCRIMINATING
                          RADAR.
  104    0604682D8Z      WARGAMING AND             3,751           3,751
                          SUPPORT FOR
                          STRATEGIC
                          ANALYSIS (SSA).
  105    0604775BR       DEFENSE RAPID            14,021          14,021
                          INNOVATION
                          PROGRAM.
  107    0604826J        JOINT C5                 20,062          20,062
                          CAPABILITY
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          INTEGRATION
                          AND
                          INTEROPERABILI
                          TY ASSESSMENTS.
  108    0604873C        LONG RANGE              136,423         136,423
                          DISCRIMINATION
                          RADAR (LRDR).
  109    0604874C        IMPROVED                412,363         412,363
                          HOMELAND
                          DEFENSE
                          INTERCEPTORS.
  110    0604876C        BALLISTIC                25,137          25,137
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          TERMINAL
                          DEFENSE
                          SEGMENT TEST.
  111    0604878C        AEGIS BMD TEST.         169,822         169,822
  112    0604879C        BALLISTIC               105,530         105,530
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE SENSOR
                          TEST.
  113    0604880C        LAND-BASED SM-3          38,352          38,352
                          (LBSM3).
  115    0604887C        BALLISTIC                98,139          98,139
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          MIDCOURSE
                          SEGMENT TEST.
  117    0300206R        ENTERPRISE                1,600           1,600
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SYSTEMS.
  118    0303191D8Z      JOINT                     3,191           3,191
                          ELECTROMAGNETI
                          C TECHNOLOGY
                          (JET) PROGRAM.
  119    0305103C        CYBER SECURITY            1,138           1,138
                          INITIATIVE.
  120    1206410SDA      SPACE                    85,000          55,000
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          PROTOTYPING.
         ..............      Missile                           [-30,000]
                             defense
                             studies
                             realignment.
  121    1206893C        SPACE TRACKING           35,849          35,849
                          & SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM.
  122    1206895C        BALLISTIC                27,565         135,565
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE SYSTEM
                          SPACE PROGRAMS.
         ..............      HBTSS                             [108,000]
                             unfunded
                             requirement.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              9,797,493       9,962,493
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION
  123    0604161D8Z      NUCLEAR AND              11,276          11,276
                          CONVENTIONAL
                          PHYSICAL
                          SECURITY
                          EQUIPMENT
                          RDT&E SDD.
  124    0604165D8Z      PROMPT GLOBAL           107,000         107,000
                          STRIKE
                          CAPABILITY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  125    0604384BP       CHEMICAL AND            384,047         384,047
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM--EMD.
  126    0604771D8Z      JOINT TACTICAL           40,102          40,102
                          INFORMATION
                          DISTRIBUTION
                          SYSTEM (JTIDS).
  127    0605000BR       COUNTER WEAPONS          13,100          13,100
                          OF MASS
                          DESTRUCTION
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  128    0605013BL       INFORMATION               3,070           3,070
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  129    0605021SE       HOMELAND                  7,295           7,295
                          PERSONNEL
                          SECURITY
                          INITIATIVE.
  130    0605022D8Z      DEFENSE                  17,615          17,615
                          EXPORTABILITY
                          PROGRAM.
  131    0605027D8Z      OUSD(C) IT               15,653          15,653
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          INITIATIVES.
  132    0605070S        DOD ENTERPRISE            2,378           2,378
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION.
  133    0605075D8Z      CMO POLICY AND            1,618           1,618
                          INTEGRATION.
  134    0605080S        DEFENSE AGENCY           27,944          27,944
                          INITIATIVES
                          (DAI)--FINANCI
                          AL SYSTEM.
  135    0605090S        DEFENSE RETIRED           6,609           6,609
                          AND ANNUITANT
                          PAY SYSTEM
                          (DRAS).
  136    0605210D8Z      DEFENSE-WIDE              9,619           9,619
                          ELECTRONIC
                          PROCUREMENT
                          CAPABILITIES.
  137    0605294D8Z      TRUSTED &               175,032         175,032
                          ASSURED
                          MICROELECTRONI
                          CS.
  138    0303140BL       INFORMATION                 425             425
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  139    0303141K        GLOBAL COMBAT             1,578           1,578
                          SUPPORT SYSTEM.
  140    0305304D8Z      DOD ENTERPRISE            4,373           4,373
                          ENERGY
                          INFORMATION
                          MANAGEMENT
                          (EEIM).
  141    0305310D8Z      CWMD SYSTEMS:            12,854          12,854
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM         841,588         841,588
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  142    0603829J        JOINT                    13,000          13,000
                          CAPABILITY
                          EXPERIMENTATIO
                          N.
  143    0604774D8Z      DEFENSE                   9,724           9,724
                          READINESS
                          REPORTING
                          SYSTEM (DRRS).
  144    0604875D8Z      JOINT SYSTEMS             9,593           9,593
                          ARCHITECTURE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  145    0604940D8Z      CENTRAL TEST            260,267         260,267
                          AND EVALUATION
                          INVESTMENT
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          (CTEIP).
  146    0604942D8Z      ASSESSMENTS AND          30,834          30,834
                          EVALUATIONS.
  147    0605001E        MISSION SUPPORT          68,498          68,498
  148    0605100D8Z      JOINT MISSION            83,091          89,091
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          TEST
                          CAPABILITY
                          (JMETC).
         ..............      Cyber range                         [6,000]
                             development.
  149    0605104D8Z      TECHNICAL                18,079          13,079
                          STUDIES,
                          SUPPORT AND
                          ANALYSIS.
         ..............      Program                            [-5,000]
                             reduction.
  150    0605126J        JOINT                    70,038          70,038
                          INTEGRATED AIR
                          AND MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          ORGANIZATION
                          (JIAMDO).
  152    0605142D8Z      SYSTEMS                  37,140          32,140
                          ENGINEERING.
         ..............      Program                            [-5,000]
                             reduction.
  153    0605151D8Z      STUDIES AND               4,759           4,759
                          ANALYSIS
                          SUPPORT--OSD.
  154    0605161D8Z      NUCLEAR MATTERS-          8,307           8,307
                          PHYSICAL
                          SECURITY.
  155    0605170D8Z      SUPPORT TO                9,441           9,441
                          NETWORKS AND
                          INFORMATION
                          INTEGRATION.
  156    0605200D8Z      GENERAL SUPPORT           1,700           1,700
                          TO USD
                          (INTELLIGENCE).
  157    0605384BP       CHEMICAL AND            110,363         110,363
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
  166    0605790D8Z      SMALL BUSINESS            3,568           3,568
                          INNOVATION
                          RESEARCH
                          (SBIR)/ SMALL
                          BUSINESS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          TRANSFER.
  167    0605797D8Z      MAINTAINING              19,936          19,936
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          ADVANTAGE.
  168    0605798D8Z      DEFENSE                  16,875          16,875
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          ANALYSIS.
  169    0605801KA       DEFENSE                  57,716          57,716
                          TECHNICAL
                          INFORMATION
                          CENTER (DTIC).
  170    0605803SE       R&D IN SUPPORT           34,448          34,448
                          OF DOD
                          ENLISTMENT,
                          TESTING AND
                          EVALUATION.
  171    0605804D8Z      DEVELOPMENT              22,203          22,203
                          TEST AND
                          EVALUATION.
  172    0605898E        MANAGEMENT HQ--          13,208          13,208
                          R&D.
  173    0605998KA       MANAGEMENT HQ--           3,027           3,027
                          DEFENSE
                          TECHNICAL
                          INFORMATION
                          CENTER (DTIC).
  174    0606100D8Z      BUDGET AND                8,017           8,017
                          PROGRAM
                          ASSESSMENTS.
  175    0606225D8Z      ODNA TECHNOLOGY           3,194           3,194
                          AND RESOURCE
                          ANALYSIS.
  176    0606589D8W      DEFENSE DIGITAL           1,000           6,000
                          SERVICE (DDS)
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............      Increase...                         [5,000]
  179    0203345D8Z      DEFENSE                   3,037           3,037
                          OPERATIONS
                          SECURITY
                          INITIATIVE
                          (DOSI).
  180    0204571J        JOINT STAFF               9,216           9,216
                          ANALYTICAL
                          SUPPORT.
  183    0303166J        SUPPORT TO                  553             553
                          INFORMATION
                          OPERATIONS
                          (IO)
                          CAPABILITIES.
  184    0303260D8Z      DEFENSE                   1,014           1,014
                          MILITARY
                          DECEPTION
                          PROGRAM OFFICE
                          (DMDPO).
  185    0305172K        COMBINED                 58,667          58,667
                          ADVANCED
                          APPLICATIONS.
  187    0305245D8Z      INTELLIGENCE             21,081          21,081
                          CAPABILITIES
                          AND INNOVATION
                          INVESTMENTS.
  189    0307588D8Z      ALGORITHMIC             221,235         221,235
                          WARFARE CROSS
                          FUNCTIONAL
                          TEAMS.
  191    0804768J        COCOM EXERCISE           40,073          40,073
                          ENGAGEMENT AND
                          TRAINING
                          TRANSFORMATION
                          (CE2T2)--NON-
                          MHA.
  192    0808709SE       DEFENSE EQUAL               100             100
                          OPPORTUNITY
                          MANAGEMENT
                          INSTITUTE
                          (DEOMI).
  193    0901598C        MANAGEMENT HQ--          27,065          27,065
                          MDA.
  194    0903235K        JOINT SERVICE             3,090           3,090
                          PROVIDER (JSP).
  999    9999999999      CLASSIFIED               51,471          51,471
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,354,628       1,355,628
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT
  195    0604130V        ENTERPRISE                7,945           7,945
                          SECURITY
                          SYSTEM (ESS).
  196    0604532K        JOINT                   208,834         208,834
                          ARTIFICIAL
                          INTELLIGENCE.
  197    0605127T        REGIONAL                  1,947           1,947
                          INTERNATIONAL
                          OUTREACH (RIO)
                          AND
                          PARTNERSHIP
                          FOR PEACE
                          INFORMATION
                          MANA.
  198    0605147T        OVERSEAS                    310             310
                          HUMANITARIAN
                          ASSISTANCE
                          SHARED
                          INFORMATION
                          SYSTEM
                          (OHASIS).
  199    0607210D8Z      INDUSTRIAL BASE          10,051          48,551
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          SUSTAINMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............      Advanced                            [5,000]
                             systems
                             manufacturi
                             ng.
         ..............      Composite                          [15,000]
                             manufacturi
                             ng
                             technologie
                             s.
         ..............      Printed                            [15,000]
                             circuit
                             boards.
         ..............      Rare earth                          [3,500]
                             element
                             production.
  200    0607310D8Z      CWMD SYSTEMS:            12,734          12,734
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  201    0607327T        GLOBAL THEATER           14,800          14,800
                          SECURITY
                          COOPERATION
                          MANAGEMENT
                          INFORMATION
                          SYSTEMS (G-
                          TSCMIS).
  202    0607384BP       CHEMICAL AND             54,023          54,023
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          (OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT).
  203    0208043J        PLANNING AND              4,537           4,537
                          DECISION AID
                          SYSTEM (PDAS).
  204    0208045K        C4I                      64,122          64,122
                          INTEROPERABILI
                          TY.
  210    0302019K        DEFENSE INFO             15,798          15,798
                          INFRASTRUCTURE
                          ENGINEERING
                          AND
                          INTEGRATION.
  211    0303126K        LONG-HAUL                11,166          11,166
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          -DCS.
  212    0303131K        MINIMUM                  17,383          17,383
                          ESSENTIAL
                          EMERGENCY
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          NETWORK
                          (MEECN).
  214    0303136G        KEY MANAGEMENT           54,516          54,516
                          INFRASTRUCTURE
                          (KMI).
  215    0303140D8Z      INFORMATION              67,631          67,631
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  216    0303140G        INFORMATION             289,080         287,198
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Sharkseer                          [-1,882]
                             transfer.
  217    0303140K        INFORMATION              42,796          44,678
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Sharkseer                           [1,882]
                             transfer.
  218    0303150K        GLOBAL COMMAND           25,218          25,218
                          AND CONTROL
                          SYSTEM.
  219    0303153K        DEFENSE                  21,698          21,698
                          SPECTRUM
                          ORGANIZATION.
  220    0303228K        JOINT REGIONAL           18,077          18,077
                          SECURITY
                          STACKS (JRSS).
  222    0303430K        FEDERAL                  44,001          44,001
                          INVESTIGATIVE
                          SERVICES
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY.
  228    0305128V        SECURITY AND              2,400          17,400
                          INVESTIGATIVE
                          ACTIVITIES.
         ..............      Local                              [15,000]
                             criminal
                             records
                             access.
  232    0305186D8Z      POLICY R&D                6,301           6,301
                          PROGRAMS.
  233    0305199D8Z      NET CENTRICITY.          21,384          21,384
  235    0305208BB       DISTRIBUTED               6,359           6,359
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  238    0305208K        DISTRIBUTED               2,981           2,981
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  241    0305327V        INSIDER THREAT.           1,964           1,964
  242    0305387D8Z      HOMELAND                  2,221           2,221
                          DEFENSE
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          TRANSFER
                          PROGRAM.
  250    0708012K        LOGISTICS                 1,361           1,361
                          SUPPORT
                          ACTIVITIES.
  251    0708012S        PACIFIC                   1,770           1,770
                          DISASTER
                          CENTERS.
  252    0708047S        DEFENSE                   3,679           3,679
                          PROPERTY
                          ACCOUNTABILITY
                          SYSTEM.
  254    1105219BB       MQ-9 UAV.......          20,697          20,697
  256    1160403BB       AVIATION                245,795         254,595
                          SYSTEMS.
         ..............      UPL Future                          [8,800]
                             vertical
                             lift.
  257    1160405BB       INTELLIGENCE             15,484          15,484
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  258    1160408BB       OPERATIONAL             166,922         166,922
                          ENHANCEMENTS.
  259    1160431BB       WARRIOR SYSTEMS          62,332          62,332
  260    1160432BB       SPECIAL                  21,805          21,805
                          PROGRAMS.
  261    1160434BB       UNMANNED ISR...          37,377          37,377
  262    1160480BB       SOF TACTICAL             11,150          11,150
                          VEHICLES.
  263    1160483BB       MARITIME                 72,626          72,626
                          SYSTEMS.
  264    1160489BB       GLOBAL VIDEO              5,363           5,363
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  265    1160490BB       OPERATIONAL              12,962          12,962
                          ENHANCEMENTS
                          INTELLIGENCE.
  266    1203610K        TELEPORT                  6,158           6,158
                          PROGRAM.
  300    0604011D8Z      NEXT GENERATION               0          25,000
                          INFORMATION
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          (5G).
         ..............      DOD                                [25,000]
                             Spectrum
                             Sharing
                             program.
  999    9999999999      CLASSIFIED            4,116,640       4,542,640
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............      Transfer                          [426,000]
                             back to
                             base
                             funding.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              5,832,398       6,345,698
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      24,346,953      25,060,253
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DW.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DEFENSE
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
    1    0605118OTE      OPERATIONAL              93,291          93,291
                          TEST AND
                          EVALUATION.
    2    0605131OTE      LIVE FIRE TEST           69,172          69,172
                          AND EVALUATION.
    3    0605814OTE      OPERATIONAL              58,737          58,737
                          TEST
                          ACTIVITIES AND
                          ANALYSES.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                221,200         221,200
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL                   221,200         221,200
                          OPERATIONAL
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DEFENSE.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RDT&E....     102,647,545     104,023,113
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS 
              CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION  FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of
                                                    Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                     FY 2020          Senate
  Line             Program Element                          Item                     Request        Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, ARMY
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   74    0603327A                            AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS                500             500
                                              ENGINEERING.
   79    0603747A                            SOLDIER SUPPORT AND SURVIVABILITY.           3,000           3,000
   85    0603804A                            LOGISTICS AND ENGINEER EQUIPMENT--           1,085           1,085
                                              ADV DEV.
   95    0604117A                            MANEUVER--SHORT RANGE AIR DEFENSE            6,000           6,000
                                              (M-SHORAD).
   97    0604119A                            ARMY ADVANCED COMPONENT                      4,529           4,529
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPING.
  105    0604785A                            INTEGRATED BASE DEFENSE (BUDGET              2,000           2,000
                                              ACTIVITY 4).
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                 17,114          17,114
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
  151    0605035A                            COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES             11,770          11,770
                                              (CIRCM).
  159    0605051A                            AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY DEVELOPMENT          77,420          77,420
  163    0605203A                            ARMY SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &                   19,527          19,527
                                              DEMONSTRATION.
  174    0304270A                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT....           3,200           3,200
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &              111,917         111,917
                                              DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RDT&E MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
  200    0606003A                            COUNTERINTEL AND HUMAN INTEL                 1,875           1,875
                                              MODERNIZATION.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL RDT&E MANAGEMENT SUPPORT.           1,875           1,875
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
  238    0303028A                            SECURITY AND INTELLIGENCE                   22,904          22,904
                                              ACTIVITIES.
  246    0305204A                            TACTICAL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES.          34,100          34,100
  247    0305206A                            AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS...          14,000          14,000
  252    0307665A                            BIOMETRICS ENABLED INTELLIGENCE...           2,214           2,214
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS                73,218          73,218
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST          204,124         204,124
                                              & EVAL, ARMY.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, NAVY
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   28    0603207N                            AIR/OCEAN TACTICAL APPLICATIONS...           2,400           2,400
   38    0603527N                            RETRACT LARCH.....................          22,000          22,000
   57    0603654N                            JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE            14,178          14,178
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   69    0603795N                            LAND ATTACK TECHNOLOGY............           1,428           1,428
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                 40,006          40,006
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
  143    0604755N                            SHIP SELF DEFENSE (DETECT &                  1,122           1,122
                                              CONTROL).
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &                1,122           1,122
                                              DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
  228    0206313M                            MARINE CORPS COMMUNICATIONS                 15,000          15,000
                                              SYSTEMS.
  999    9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............         108,282         108,282
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS               123,282         123,282
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST          164,410         164,410
                                              & EVAL, NAVY.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, AF
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   48    0604858F                            TECH TRANSITION PROGRAM...........          26,450          26,450
   72    1206857F                            SPACE RAPID CAPABILITIES OFFICE...          17,885          17,885
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                 44,335          44,335
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
  177    0205671F                            JOINT COUNTER RCIED ELECTRONIC               4,000           4,000
                                              WARFARE.
  217    0208288F                            INTEL DATA APPLICATIONS...........           1,200           1,200
  999    9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............         400,713          78,713
         ..................................      Transfer back to base funding.                       [-322,000]
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS               405,913          83,913
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST          450,248         128,248
                                              & EVAL, AF.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, DW
         ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
   10    0602134BR                           COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT ADVANCED           1,677           1,677
                                              STUDIES.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH.........           1,677           1,677
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
   25    0603122D8Z                          COMBATING TERRORISM TECHNOLOGY              25,230          25,230
                                              SUPPORT.
   27    0603134BR                           COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT                   49,528          49,528
                                              SIMULATION.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY                74,758          74,758
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND
                                              PROTOTYPES
   94    0604134BR                           COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT                  113,590         113,590
                                              DEMONSTRATION, PROTOTYPE
                                              DEVELOPMENT, AND TESTING.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                113,590         113,590
                                              DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
  258    1160408BB                           OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS..........             726             726
  259    1160431BB                           WARRIOR SYSTEMS...................           6,000           6,000
  261    1160434BB                           UNMANNED ISR......................           5,000           5,000
  999    9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............         626,199         200,199
         ..................................      Transfer back to base funding.                       [-426,000]
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEM                637,925         211,925
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST          827,950         401,950
                                              & EVAL, DW.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RDT&E.......................       1,646,732         898,732
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                     FY 2020          Senate
  Line                                     Item                                      Request        Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MANEUVER UNITS.......................................................               0       1,735,922
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [1,735,922]
   020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................               0         127,815
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [127,815]
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................               0         716,356
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [716,356]
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................               0         890,891
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [890,891]
   050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................               0       1,232,477
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [1,232,477]
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................               0       1,355,606
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [1,355,606]
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................         408,031       3,882,315
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [3,474,284]
   080    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................         417,069         446,269
              UPL MDTF INDOPACOM...............................................                         [29,200]
   090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................               0       1,633,327
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [1,633,327]
   100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................               0       7,951,473
              Historical underexecution........................................                        [-46,000]
              Revised MHPI cost share..........................................                        [-50,460]
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [8,047,933]
   110    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................       4,326,840       4,326,840
   120    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................         405,612         405,612
   160    US AFRICA COMMAND....................................................         251,511         251,511
   170    US EUROPEAN COMMAND..................................................         146,358         154,158
              JIOCEUR JAC Molesworth...........................................                          [7,800]
   180    US SOUTHERN COMMAND..................................................         191,840         191,840
   190    US FORCES KOREA......................................................          57,603          57,603
   200    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........................         423,156         423,156
   210    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSECURITY.................................         551,185         551,185
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       7,179,205      26,334,356
 
          MOBILIZATION
   220    STRATEGIC MOBILITY...................................................         380,577         380,577
   230    ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS............................................         362,942         362,942
   240    INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS..............................................           4,637           4,637
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................         748,156         748,156
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   250    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         157,175         157,175
   260    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          55,739          55,739
   270    ONE STATION UNIT TRAINING............................................          62,300          62,300
   280    SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS...............................         538,357         538,357
   290    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         969,813         969,813
   300    FLIGHT TRAINING......................................................       1,234,049       1,234,049
   310    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         218,338         218,338
   320    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         554,659         554,659
   330    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         716,056         636,056
              Unjustified growth for advertising...............................                        [-70,000]
              Unjustified growth for recruiting................................                        [-10,000]
   340    EXAMINING............................................................         185,034         185,034
   350    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................         214,275         214,275
   360    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................         147,647         147,647
   370    JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICER TRAINING CORPS................................         173,812         173,812
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       5,227,254       5,147,254
 
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   390    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................         559,229         559,229
   400    CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES............................................         929,944         929,944
   410    LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..........................................         629,981         629,981
   420    AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT................................................         458,771         458,771
   430    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         428,768         428,768
   440    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................       1,512,736       1,512,736
   450    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................         272,738         272,738
   460    OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT..............................................         391,869         363,869
              Historical underexecution........................................                        [-28,000]
   470    OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT................................................       1,901,165       1,901,165
   480    ARMY CLAIMS ACTIVITIES...............................................         198,765         183,765
              Historical underexecution........................................                        [-15,000]
   490    REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT...............................................         226,248         226,248
   500    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT READINESS.............................         315,489         315,489
   510    INTERNATIONAL MILITARY HEADQUARTERS..................................         427,254         427,254
   520    MISC. SUPPORT OF OTHER NATIONS.......................................          43,248          43,248
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,347,053       1,347,053
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................       9,643,258       9,600,258
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         103,800
              Cyber operations-peculiar capability development projects........                          [3,000]
              Single family home pilot program.................................                          [1,000]
              THAAD sustainment program transfer from MDA......................                         [99,800]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         103,800
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY..................................      22,797,873      41,933,824
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................               0          11,927
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                         [11,927]
   020    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................               0         533,015
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [533,015]
   030    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................               0         119,517
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [119,517]
   040    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................               0         550,468
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [550,468]
   050    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................               0          86,670
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                         [86,670]
   060    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................         390,061         390,061
   070    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................         101,890         101,890
   080    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................               0          48,503
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                         [48,503]
   090    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................               0         598,907
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [598,907]
   100    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         444,376         444,376
   110    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................          22,095          22,095
   120    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........................           3,288           3,288
   130    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSECURITY.................................           7,655           7,655
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................         969,365       2,918,372
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   140    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          14,533          14,533
   150    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          17,231          17,231
   160    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................          14,304          14,304
   170    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................           6,129           6,129
   180    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................          58,541          58,541
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         110,738         110,738
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES..............................       1,080,103       3,029,110
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MANEUVER UNITS.......................................................               0         805,671
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [805,671]
   020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................               0         195,334
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [195,334]
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................               0         771,048
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [771,048]
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................               0          94,726
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                         [94,726]
   050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................               0          33,696
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                         [33,696]
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................               0         981,819
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [981,819]
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................         743,206         743,206
   080    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................          50,963          50,963
   090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................               0         258,278
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [258,278]
   100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................               0       1,153,076
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [1,153,076]
   110    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................       1,113,475       1,120,675
              Damage assessment................................................                          [7,200]
   120    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................       1,001,042       1,001,042
   130    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........................           8,448           8,448
   140    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSECURITY.................................           7,768           7,768
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       2,924,902       7,225,750
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................           9,890           9,890
   160    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          71,070          71,070
   170    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................          68,213          68,213
   180    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................           8,628           8,628
   190    OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT..............................................         250,376         247,376
              Unjustified growth for marketing.................................                         [-1,500]
              Unjustified growth for recruiting................................                         [-1,500]
   200    REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT...............................................           2,676           2,676
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         410,853         407,853
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG..................................       3,335,755       7,633,603
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS..................................               0       2,877,800
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [2,877,800]
   020    FLEET AIR TRAINING...................................................       2,284,828       2,284,828
   030    AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA & ENGINEERING SERVICES.......................               0          59,299
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                         [59,299]
   040    AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY SUPPORT....................................         155,896         155,896
   050    AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT..................................................         719,107         719,107
   060    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................               0       1,154,181
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [1,154,181]
   070    AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT....................................          60,402          60,402
   080    AVIATION LOGISTICS...................................................       1,241,421       1,241,421
   090    MISSION AND OTHER SHIP OPERATIONS....................................               0       4,097,262
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [4,097,262]
   100    SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT & TRAINING...................................       1,031,792       1,031,792
   110    SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE...............................................               0       8,875,298
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [8,061,298]
              UPL SSN and Ship maintenance increase............................                        [814,000]
   120    SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT........................................               0       2,073,641
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [2,073,641]
   130    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE.........................       1,378,856       1,378,856
   140    SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE.......................................         276,245         276,245
   150    WARFARE TACTICS......................................................         675,209         675,209
   160    OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY.............................         389,516         389,516
   170    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................       1,536,310       1,536,310
   180    EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................         161,579         161,579
   190    COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE OPERATIONS.................................          59,521          59,521
   200    COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT MISSION SUPPORT..........................          93,978          98,978
              Posture site assessments INDOPACOM...............................                          [5,000]
   210    MILITARY INFORMATION SUPPORT OPERATIONS..............................           8,641           8,641
   220    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         496,385         496,385
   230    FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE..............................................       1,423,339       1,423,339
   240    WEAPONS MAINTENANCE..................................................         924,069         924,069
   250    OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT.........................................         540,210         540,210
   260    ENTERPRISE INFORMATION...............................................       1,131,627       1,131,627
   270    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................       3,029,634       3,029,634
   280    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................               0       4,433,783
              Revised MHPI cost share..........................................                         [18,840]
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [4,414,943]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      17,618,565      41,194,829
 
          MOBILIZATION
   290    SHIP PREPOSITIONING AND SURGE........................................         942,902         942,902
   300    READY RESERVE FORCE..................................................         352,044         352,044
   310    SHIP ACTIVATIONS/INACTIVATIONS.......................................         427,555         427,555
   320    EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS................................         137,597         137,597
   330    COAST GUARD SUPPORT..................................................          24,604          24,604
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................       1,884,702       1,884,702
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   340    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         150,765         150,765
   350    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          11,584          11,584
   360    RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS......................................         159,133         159,133
   370    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         911,316         911,316
   380    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         185,211         185,211
   390    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         267,224         267,224
   400    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         209,252         189,252
              Unjustified growth...............................................                        [-20,000]
   410    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................          88,902          88,902
   420    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................          67,492          67,492
   430    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          55,164          55,164
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       2,106,043       2,086,043
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   440    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................       1,143,358       1,092,358
              Decrease.........................................................                         [-1,000]
              Unjustified audit growth.........................................                        [-50,000]
   450    CIVILIAN MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................         178,342         178,342
   460    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................         418,413         418,413
   490    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................         157,465         157,465
   510    PLANNING, ENGINEERING, AND PROGRAM SUPPORT...........................         485,397         490,397
              REPO.............................................................                          [5,000]
   520    ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND OVERSIGHT................................         654,137         654,137
   530    INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY SERVICES..................................         718,061         718,061
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................         588,235         591,535
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                          [3,300]
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................       4,343,408       4,300,708
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0           3,000
              Cyber operations-peculiar capability development projects........                          [3,000]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0           3,000
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY..................................      25,952,718      49,469,282
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATIONAL FORCES...................................................               0         968,224
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [968,224]
   020    FIELD LOGISTICS......................................................       1,278,533       1,278,533
   030    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................               0         232,991
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [232,991]
   040    MARITIME PREPOSITIONING..............................................               0         100,396
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [100,396]
   050    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         203,580         203,580
   060    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION.............................       1,115,742       1,559,034
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [443,292]
   070    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................               0       2,253,776
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [2,253,776]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       2,597,855       6,596,534
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   080    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          21,240          21,240
   090    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................           1,168           1,168
   100    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         106,601         106,601
   110    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................          49,095          49,095
   120    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         407,315         407,315
   130    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         210,475         210,475
   140    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................          42,810          42,810
   150    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          25,183          25,183
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................         863,887         863,887
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   160    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          29,894          29,894
   170    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         384,352         384,352
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................          52,057          52,057
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         466,303         466,303
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0           3,000
              Cyber operations-peculiar capability development.................                          [3,000]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0           3,000
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS..........................       3,928,045       7,929,724
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS..................................               0         654,220
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [654,220]
   020    INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE.............................................           8,767           8,767
   030    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................               0         108,236
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [108,236]
   040    AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT....................................             463             463
   050    AVIATION LOGISTICS...................................................          26,014          26,014
   060    SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT & TRAINING...................................             583             583
   070    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS................................................          17,883          17,883
   080    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................         128,079         128,079
   090    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................             356             356
   100    ENTERPRISE INFORMATION...............................................          26,133          26,133
   110    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................          35,397          35,397
   120    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................               0         101,376
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [101,376]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................         243,675       1,107,507
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   130    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................           1,888           1,888
   140    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................          12,778          12,778
   150    ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT...................................           2,943           2,943
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................          17,609          17,609
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES..............................         261,284       1,125,116
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATING FORCES.....................................................               0         106,484
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [106,484]
   020    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................               0          18,429
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                         [18,429]
   030    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................          47,516          47,516
   040    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................               0         106,073
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [106,073]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................          47,516         278,502
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   050    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          13,574          13,574
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................          13,574          13,574
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE............................          61,090         292,076
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES................................................         729,127         729,127
   020    COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES............................................       1,318,770       1,318,770
   030    AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT, MAINTAIN SKILLS).......................       1,486,790       1,486,790
   040    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................               0       3,334,792
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [3,334,792]
   050    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................       3,675,824       4,142,435
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [466,611]
   060    CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT...............................................               0         228,811
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [228,811]
   070    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................               0       8,329,364
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [8,329,364]
   080    FLYING HOUR PROGRAM..................................................               0       4,048,773
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [4,048,773]
   090    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................               0       7,191,582
              Revised MHPI cost share..........................................                        [-32,400]
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [7,223,982]
   100    GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING.........................................         964,553         964,553
   110    OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS........................................       1,032,307       1,032,307
   120    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         670,076         670,076
   140    LAUNCH FACILITIES....................................................         179,980         179,980
   150    SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS................................................         467,990         467,990
   160    US NORTHCOM/NORAD....................................................         184,655         184,655
   170    US STRATCOM..........................................................         478,357         478,357
   180    US CYBERCOM..........................................................         323,121         347,921
              Accelerate development Cyber National Mission Force capabilities.                          [1,500]
              Cyber National Mission Force Mobile & Modular Hunt Forward Kit...                          [5,300]
              ETERNALDARKNESS..................................................                         [18,000]
   190    US CENTCOM...........................................................         160,989         160,989
   200    US SOCOM.............................................................           6,225           6,225
   210    US TRANSCOM..........................................................             544             544
   220    CENTCOM CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT.......................................           2,073           2,073
   230    USSPACECOM...........................................................          70,588          70,588
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,322,944       1,322,944
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      13,074,913      36,699,646
 
          MOBILIZATION
   240    AIRLIFT OPERATIONS...................................................       1,158,142       1,158,142
   250    MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS............................................         138,672         138,672
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................       1,296,814       1,296,814
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   260    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         130,835         130,835
   270    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          26,021          26,021
   280    RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS (ROTC)...............................         121,391         121,391
   290    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         454,539         454,539
   300    FLIGHT TRAINING......................................................         600,565         600,565
   310    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         282,788         282,788
   320    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         123,988         123,988
   330    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         167,731         161,731
              Unjustified growth...............................................                         [-6,000]
   340    EXAMINING............................................................           4,576           4,576
   350    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................         211,911         211,911
   360    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................         219,021         219,021
   370    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          62,092          62,092
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       2,405,458       2,399,458
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   380    LOGISTICS OPERATIONS.................................................         664,926         664,926
   390    TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES.........................................         101,483         101,483
   400    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         892,480         892,480
   410    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................         152,532         152,532
   420    OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES.........................................       1,254,089       1,254,089
   430    CIVIL AIR PATROL.....................................................          30,070          30,070
   460    INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT................................................         136,110         136,110
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,269,624       1,269,624
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................       4,501,314       4,501,314
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................          72,436          72,436
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................          72,436          72,436
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE...........................          72,436          72,436
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0           3,000
              Cyber operations-peculiar capability development projects........                          [3,000]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0           3,000
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE.............................      21,278,499      44,900,232
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES................................................       1,781,413       1,781,413
   020    MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS...........................................         209,650         209,650
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................               0         494,235
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [494,235]
   040    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         128,746         128,746
   050    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................               0         256,512
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [256,512]
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................               0         414,626
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [414,626]
   070    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................           1,673           1,673
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       2,121,482       3,286,855
 
          ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
   080    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          69,436          69,436
   090    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................          22,124          22,124
   100    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERS MGMT (ARPC)...............................          10,946          10,946
   110    OTHER PERS SUPPORT (DISABILITY COMP).................................           7,009           7,009
   120    AUDIOVISUAL..........................................................             448             448
          SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES...................         109,963         109,963
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE............................       2,231,445       3,396,818
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS..................................................       2,497,967       2,497,967
   020    MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS...........................................         600,377         600,377
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................               0         879,467
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [879,467]
   040    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         400,734         400,734
   050    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................               0       1,299,089
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                      [1,299,089]
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................               0         911,775
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [911,775]
   070    CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT...............................................               0          24,742
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                         [24,742]
   080    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................          25,507          25,507
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       3,524,585       6,639,658
 
          ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
   090    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          47,215          47,215
   100    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................          40,356          40,356
          SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES..................          87,571          87,571
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG...................................       3,612,156       6,727,229
 
          OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF................................................         409,542         409,542
   020    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--CE2T2.........................................         579,179         579,179
   030    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--CYBER.........................................          24,598          24,598
   040    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.............       1,075,762       1,075,762
   050    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.....................          14,409          14,409
   060    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND INTELLIGENCE..............................         501,747         501,747
   070    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MAINTENANCE...............................         559,300         559,300
   080    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MANAGEMENT/OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS.......         177,928         177,928
   090    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.......................         925,262         925,262
   100    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND THEATER FORCES............................       2,764,738       2,764,738
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       7,032,465       7,032,465
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   120    DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY.......................................         180,250         180,250
   130    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF................................................         100,610         100,610
   140    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................          33,967          33,967
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................         314,827         314,827
 
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   160    CIVIL MILITARY PROGRAMS..............................................         165,707         195,007
              IRT Increase.....................................................                         [14,300]
              Starbase.........................................................                         [15,000]
   180    DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY........................................         627,467         627,467
   190    DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY--CYBER.................................           3,362           3,362
   200    DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY...................................       1,438,068       1,438,068
   210    DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY--CYBER............................          24,391          24,391
   220    DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES ACTIVITY.....................................         892,438         892,438
   230    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY...................................       2,012,885       2,007,885
              MilCloud.........................................................                         [-5,000]
   240    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY--CYBER............................         601,223         636,360
              Sharkseer transfer...............................................                         [35,137]
   270    DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY........................................          34,632          34,632
   280    DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY.............................................         415,699         415,699
   290    DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY...............................................         202,792         202,792
   300    DEFENSE PERSONNEL ACCOUNTING AGENCY..................................         144,881         144,881
   310    DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY..................................         696,884         696,884
              Assessment, monitoring, and evaluation...........................                         [11,000]
              Security cooperation account.....................................                        [-11,000]
   320    DEFENSE SECURITY SERVICE.............................................         889,664         899,664
              Consolidated Adjudication Facility...............................                         [10,000]
   340    DEFENSE SECURITY SERVICE--CYBER......................................           9,220           9,220
   360    DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFORMATION CENTER.................................           3,000           3,000
   370    DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY SECURITY ADMINISTRATION...........................          35,626          35,626
   380    DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY......................................         568,133         568,133
   400    DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY--CYBER...............................          13,339          13,339
   410    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY.............................       2,932,226       2,982,226
              Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.................                         [10,000]
              Impact aid for schools with military dependent students..........                         [40,000]
   420    MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY...............................................         522,529         422,729
              THAAD program transfer to Army...................................                        [-99,800]
   450    OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT........................................          59,513          59,513
   460    OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE...................................       1,604,738       1,678,738
              Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup..........................................                         [15,000]
              CDC study........................................................                         [10,000]
              Emerging contaminants............................................                          [1,000]
              Industrial policy implementation of EO13806......................                         [15,000]
              Interstate compacts for licensure and credentialing..............                          [4,000]
              National Commission on Military Aviation Safety..................                          [3,000]
              National Commission on Military, National, and Public Service....                          [1,000]
              Readiness and Environmental Protection Integration...............                         [25,000]
   470    OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE--CYBER............................          48,783          48,783
   480    SPACE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.............................................          44,750          44,750
   500    WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS SERVICES.....................................         324,001         329,001
              Defense Digital Service Hires....................................                          [5,000]
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................      15,736,098      15,781,461
              Sharkseer transfer...............................................                        [-35,137]
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                         [80,500]
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................      30,052,049      30,196,049
 
          TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE........................      37,399,341      37,543,341
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE
   010    US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE....................          14,771          14,771
          SUBTOTAL US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE...........          14,771          14,771
 
          OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID
   010    OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID........................         108,600         108,600
          SUBTOTAL OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID...............         108,600         108,600
 
          COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
   010    COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION.........................................         338,700         338,700
          SUBTOTAL COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION................................         338,700         338,700
 
          ACQ WORKFORCE DEV FD
   010    ACQ WORKFORCE DEV FD.................................................         400,000         400,000
          SUBTOTAL ACQ WORKFORCE DEV FD........................................         400,000         400,000
 
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY
   050    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY......................................         207,518         207,518
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY.............................         207,518         207,518
 
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY
   060    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY......................................         335,932         335,932
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY.............................         335,932         335,932
 
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE
   070    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE.................................         302,744         302,744
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE........................         302,744         302,744
 
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE
   080    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE...................................           9,105           9,105
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE..........................           9,105           9,105
 
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES
   090    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES........................         216,499         216,499
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES...............         216,499         216,499
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................       1,933,869       1,933,869
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -590,000
              Foreign currency fluctuation fund reduction......................                       [-607,000]
              JROTC............................................................                         [25,000]
              Printing inefficiencies..........................................                         [-8,000]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -590,000
 
          TOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED..................................................               0        -590,000
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE........................................     123,944,614     205,396,660
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
              OPERATIONS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                     FY 2020          Senate
  Line                                     Item                                      Request        Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MANEUVER UNITS.......................................................       3,146,796       1,410,874
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-1,735,922]
   020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................         127,815               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-127,815]
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         742,858          26,502
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-716,356]
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................       3,165,381       2,274,490
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-890,891]
   050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................       1,368,765         136,288
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-1,232,477]
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................       1,655,846         300,240
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-1,355,606]
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................       6,889,293       3,415,009
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-3,474,284]
   080    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................          29,985          29,985
   090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................       1,720,258          86,931
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-1,633,327]
   100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................       8,163,639         115,706
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-8,047,933]
   110    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................          72,657          72,657
   130    ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES................................................       6,397,586       6,397,586
   140    COMMANDER'S EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM...............................           5,000           5,000
   150    RESET................................................................       1,048,896       1,048,896
   160    US AFRICA COMMAND....................................................         203,174         203,174
   170    US EUROPEAN COMMAND..................................................         173,676         173,676
   200    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........................         188,529         188,529
   210    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSECURITY.................................           5,682           5,682
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      35,105,836      15,891,225
 
          MOBILIZATION
   230    ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS............................................         131,954         131,954
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................         131,954         131,954
 
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   390    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................         721,014         721,014
   400    CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES............................................          66,845          66,845
   410    LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..........................................           9,309           9,309
   420    AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT................................................          23,653          23,653
   460    OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT..............................................         109,019         109,019
   490    REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT...............................................         251,355         251,355
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,568,564       1,568,564
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................       2,749,759       2,749,759
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY..................................      37,987,549      18,772,938
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................          11,927               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [-11,927]
   020    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         553,455          20,440
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-533,015]
   030    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................         119,517               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-119,517]
   040    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................         550,468               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-550,468]
   050    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................          86,670               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [-86,670]
   060    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................             689             689
   080    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................          48,503               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [-48,503]
   090    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................         615,370          16,463
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-598,907]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       1,986,599          37,592
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES..............................       1,986,599          37,592
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MANEUVER UNITS.......................................................         851,567          45,896
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-805,671]
   020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................         195,514             180
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-195,334]
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         774,030           2,982
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-771,048]
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................          95,274             548
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [-94,726]
   050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................          33,696               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [-33,696]
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................         991,048           9,229
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-981,819]
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................           1,584           1,584
   090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................         258,278               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-258,278]
   100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................       1,175,139          22,063
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-1,153,076]
   120    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................             606             606
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       4,376,736          83,088
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   170    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................             203             203
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................             203             203
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG..................................       4,376,939          83,291
 
          AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND
          AFGHAN NATIONAL ARMY
   090    SUSTAINMENT..........................................................       1,313,047       1,313,047
   100    INFRASTRUCTURE.......................................................          37,152          37,152
   110    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION.........................................         120,868         120,868
   120    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS..............................................         118,591         118,591
          SUBTOTAL AFGHAN NATIONAL ARMY........................................       1,589,658       1,589,658
 
          AFGHAN NATIONAL POLICE
   130    SUSTAINMENT..........................................................         422,806         422,806
   140    INFRASTRUCTURE.......................................................           2,358           2,358
   150    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION.........................................         127,081         127,081
   160    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS..............................................         108,112         108,112
          SUBTOTAL AFGHAN NATIONAL POLICE......................................         660,357         660,357
 
          AFGHAN AIR FORCE
   170    SUSTAINMENT..........................................................         893,829         893,829
   180    INFRASTRUCTURE.......................................................           8,611           8,611
   190    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION.........................................         566,967         566,967
   200    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS..............................................         356,108         356,108
          SUBTOTAL AFGHAN AIR FORCE............................................       1,825,515       1,825,515
 
          AFGHAN SPECIAL SECURITY FORCES
   210    SUSTAINMENT..........................................................         437,909         437,909
   220    INFRASTRUCTURE.......................................................          21,131          21,131
   230    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION.........................................         153,806         153,806
   240    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS..............................................         115,602         115,602
          SUBTOTAL AFGHAN SPECIAL SECURITY FORCES..............................         728,448         728,448
 
          TOTAL AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND...............................       4,803,978       4,803,978
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS..................................       5,682,156       2,804,356
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-2,877,800]
   030    AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA & ENGINEERING SERVICES.......................          60,115             816
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [-59,299]
   040    AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY SUPPORT....................................           9,582           9,582
   050    AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT..................................................         197,262         197,262
   060    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................       1,322,427         168,246
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-1,154,181]
   070    AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT....................................           3,594           3,594
   080    AVIATION LOGISTICS...................................................          10,618          10,618
   090    MISSION AND OTHER SHIP OPERATIONS....................................       5,582,370       1,485,108
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-4,097,262]
   100    SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT & TRAINING...................................          20,334          20,334
   110    SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE...............................................      10,426,913       2,365,615
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-8,061,298]
   120    SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT........................................       2,073,641               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-2,073,641]
   130    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE.........................          58,092          58,092
   140    SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE.......................................          18,000          18,000
   150    WARFARE TACTICS......................................................          16,984          16,984
   160    OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY.............................          29,382          29,382
   170    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................         608,870         608,870
   180    EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................           7,799           7,799
   200    COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT MISSION SUPPORT..........................          24,800          24,800
   220    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................             363             363
   240    WEAPONS MAINTENANCE..................................................         486,188         486,188
   250    OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT.........................................          12,189          12,189
   270    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................          68,667          68,667
   280    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................       4,634,042         219,099
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-4,414,943]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      31,354,388       8,615,964
 
          MOBILIZATION
   320    EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS................................          17,580          17,580
   330    COAST GUARD SUPPORT..................................................         190,000         190,000
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................         207,580         207,580
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   370    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................          52,161          52,161
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................          52,161          52,161
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   440    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................           8,475           8,475
   460    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................           7,653           7,653
   490    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          70,683          70,683
   520    ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND OVERSIGHT................................          11,130          11,130
   530    INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY SERVICES..................................           1,559           1,559
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................          21,054          17,754
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                         [-3,300]
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         120,554         117,254
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY..................................      31,734,683       8,992,959
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATIONAL FORCES...................................................       1,682,877         714,653
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-968,224]
   020    FIELD LOGISTICS......................................................         232,508         232,508
   030    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................         287,092          54,101
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-232,991]
   040    MARITIME PREPOSITIONING..............................................         100,396               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-100,396]
   050    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................           2,000           2,000
   060    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION.............................         443,292         340,000
              Disaster recovery increase.......................................                        [340,000]
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-443,292]
   070    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................       2,278,346          24,570
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-2,253,776]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       5,026,511       1,367,832
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   120    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................          30,459          30,459
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................          30,459          30,459
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   160    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          61,400          61,400
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................           5,100           5,100
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................          66,500          66,500
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS..........................       5,123,470       1,464,791
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS..................................         654,220               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-654,220]
   020    INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE.............................................             510             510
   030    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................         119,864          11,628
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-108,236]
   080    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................          10,898          10,898
   120    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................         101,376               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-101,376]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................         886,868          23,036
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES..............................         886,868          23,036
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATING FORCES.....................................................         114,111           7,627
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-106,484]
   020    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................          18,429               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [-18,429]
   040    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................         107,153           1,080
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-106,073]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................         239,693           8,707
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE............................         239,693           8,707
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES................................................         163,632         163,632
   020    COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES............................................       1,049,170       1,049,170
   030    AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT, MAINTAIN SKILLS).......................         111,808         111,808
   040    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................       3,743,491         408,699
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-3,334,792]
   050    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         613,875         487,264
              Disaster recovery increase.......................................                        [340,000]
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-466,611]
   060    CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT...............................................         238,872          10,061
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-228,811]
   070    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................       9,282,958         953,594
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-8,329,364]
   080    FLYING HOUR PROGRAM..................................................       6,544,039       2,495,266
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-4,048,773]
   090    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................       8,762,102       1,538,120
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-7,223,982]
   100    GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING.........................................          13,863          13,863
   110    OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS........................................         272,020         272,020
   120    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................          17,657          17,657
   130    TACTICAL INTEL AND OTHER SPECIAL ACTIVITIES..........................          36,098          36,098
   140    LAUNCH FACILITIES....................................................             391             391
   150    SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS................................................          39,990          39,990
   160    US NORTHCOM/NORAD....................................................             725             725
   170    US STRATCOM..........................................................             926             926
   180    US CYBERCOM..........................................................          35,189          35,189
   190    US CENTCOM...........................................................         163,015         163,015
   200    US SOCOM.............................................................          19,000          19,000
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      31,108,821       7,816,488
 
          MOBILIZATION
   240    AIRLIFT OPERATIONS...................................................       1,271,439       1,271,439
   250    MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS............................................         109,682         109,682
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................       1,381,121       1,381,121
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   260    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................             200             200
   270    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................             352             352
   290    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................          26,802          26,802
   300    FLIGHT TRAINING......................................................             844             844
   310    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................           1,199           1,199
   320    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................           1,320           1,320
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................          30,717          30,717
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   380    LOGISTICS OPERATIONS.................................................         164,701         164,701
   390    TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES.........................................          11,608          11,608
   400    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................           4,814           4,814
   410    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................         145,204         145,204
   420    OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES.........................................          98,841          98,841
   460    INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT................................................          29,890          29,890
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................          52,995          52,995
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         508,053         508,053
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE.............................      33,028,712       9,736,379
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................         518,423          24,188
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-494,235]
   050    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................         256,512               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-256,512]
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................         420,196           5,570
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-414,626]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       1,195,131          29,758
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE............................       1,195,131          29,758
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
          OPERATING FORCES
   020    MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS...........................................           3,666           3,666
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................         946,411          66,944
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-879,467]
   050    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................       1,392,709          93,620
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                     [-1,299,089]
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................         924,454          12,679
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                       [-911,775]
   070    CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT...............................................          24,742               0
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [-24,742]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       3,291,982         176,909
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG...................................       3,291,982         176,909
 
          OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF................................................          21,866          21,866
   020    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--CE2T2.........................................           6,634           6,634
   040    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.............       1,121,580       1,121,580
   060    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND INTELLIGENCE..............................       1,328,201       1,328,201
   070    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MAINTENANCE...............................         399,845         399,845
   090    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.......................         138,458         138,458
   100    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND THEATER FORCES............................         808,729         808,729
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       3,825,313       3,825,313
 
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   180    DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY........................................           1,810           1,810
   200    DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY...................................          21,723          21,723
   230    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY...................................          81,133          81,133
   240    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY--CYBER............................           3,455           3,455
   270    DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY........................................         196,124         196,124
   290    DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY...............................................          14,377          14,377
   310    DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY..................................       1,927,217       1,977,217
              Security cooperation account, unjustified growth.................                       [-100,000]
              Transfer from CTEF Iraq..........................................                        [100,000]
              Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative...........................                         [50,000]
   380    DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY......................................         317,558         317,558
   410    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY.............................          31,620          31,620
   460    OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE...................................          16,666          16,666
   500    WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS SERVICES.....................................           6,331           6,331
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       2,005,285       1,924,785
              Transfer back to base funding....................................                        [-80,500]
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................       4,623,299       4,592,799
 
          TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE........................       8,448,612       8,418,112
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE........................................     133,104,216      52,548,450
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2020           Senate
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS.....     143,476,503      142,557,523
     Historical under execution.......                        [-918,980]
SUBTOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL                143,476,503      142,557,523
 APPROPRIATIONS.......................
 
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH FUND
 CONTRIBUTIONS
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH FUND        7,816,815        7,816,815
 CONTRIBUTIONS........................
SUBTOTAL MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE           7,816,815        7,816,815
 HEALTH FUND CONTRIBUTIONS............
 
TOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL..............     151,293,318      150,374,338
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2020           Senate
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS.....       4,485,808        4,485,808
SUBTOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL                  4,485,808        4,485,808
 APPROPRIATIONS.......................
 
TOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL..............       4,485,808        4,485,808
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
       SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS  (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2020         Senate
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
   010   INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS..........          57,467          57,467
   020   SUPPLY MANAGEMENT--ARMY........          32,130          32,130
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           89,597          89,597
          ARMY..........................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
   020   SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS.........          92,499         102,499
             Energy optimization                                [10,000]
             initiatives................
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           92,499         102,499
          AIR FORCE.....................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-
          WIDE
   010   SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT--DEF...          49,085          49,085
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           49,085          49,085
          DEFENSE-WIDE..................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA
   010   WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA.....         995,030         995,030
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,          995,030         995,030
          DECA..........................
 
         WCF, DEF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE &
          SECURITY AGENCY
   010   DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND         200,000         200,000
          SECURITY AGENCY...............
         SUBTOTAL WCF, DEF                       200,000         200,000
          COUNTERINTELLIGENCE & SECURITY
          AGENCY........................
 
         TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND.....       1,426,211       1,436,211
 
         CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS
          DESTRUCTION
         CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS
          DESTRUCTION
     1   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE......         107,351         107,351
     2   RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST,            875,930         875,930
          AND EVALUATION................
     3   PROCUREMENT....................           2,218           2,218
         SUBTOTAL CHEM AGENTS &                  985,499         985,499
          MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION.........
 
         TOTAL CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS           985,499         985,499
          DESTRUCTION...................
 
         DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
          ACTIVITIES, DEF
         DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER
          DRUG ACTIVITIES
   010   COUNTER-NARCOTICS SUPPORT......         581,739         581,739
         SUBTOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION AND          581,739         581,739
          COUNTER DRUG ACTIVITIES.......
 
         DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM
   020   DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM..         120,922         120,922
         SUBTOTAL DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION          120,922         120,922
          PROGRAM.......................
 
         NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG
          PROGRAM
   030   NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG              91,370          91,370
          PROGRAM.......................
         SUBTOTAL NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-         91,370          91,370
          DRUG PROGRAM..................
 
         NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG
          SCHOOLS
   040   NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG               5,371           5,371
          SCHOOLS.......................
         SUBTOTAL NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-          5,371           5,371
          DRUG SCHOOLS..................
 
         TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-          799,402         799,402
          DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEF..........
 
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
   010   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE......         359,022         359,022
   020   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE--               1,179           1,179
          CYBER.........................
   030   RDT&E..........................           2,965           2,965
   040   PROCUREMENT....................             333             333
         SUBTOTAL OFFICE OF THE                  363,499         363,499
          INSPECTOR GENERAL.............
 
         TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR           363,499         363,499
          GENERAL.......................
 
         DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
   010   IN-HOUSE CARE..................       9,570,615       9,570,615
   020   PRIVATE SECTOR CARE............      15,041,006      15,052,006
             Contraceptive cost-sharing.                        [11,000]
   030   CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT....       1,975,536       1,975,536
   040   INFORMATION MANAGEMENT.........       2,004,588       2,004,588
   050   MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES..........         333,246         333,246
   060   EDUCATION AND TRAINING.........         793,810         793,810
   070   BASE OPERATIONS/COMMUNICATIONS.       2,093,289       2,093,289
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION &                 31,812,090      31,823,090
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         RDT&E
   080   R&D RESEARCH...................          12,621          12,621
   090   R&D EXPLORATRY DEVELOPMENT.....          84,266          84,266
   100   R&D ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT.......         279,766         279,766
   110   R&D DEMONSTRATION/VALIDATION...         128,055         128,055
   120   R&D ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT....         143,527         143,527
   130   R&D MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT.....          67,219          67,219
   140   R&D CAPABILITIES ENHANCEMENT...          16,819          16,819
         SUBTOTAL RDT&E.................         732,273         732,273
 
         PROCUREMENT
   150   PROC INITIAL OUTFITTING........          26,135          26,135
   160   PROC REPLACEMENT &                      225,774         225,774
          MODERNIZATION.................
   170   PROC JOINT OPERATIONAL MEDICINE             314             314
          INFORMATION SYSTEM............
   180   PROC MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM--            73,010          73,010
          DESKTOP TO DATACENTER.........
   190   PROC DOD HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT          129,091         129,091
          SYSTEM MODERNIZATION..........
         SUBTOTAL PROCUREMENT...........         454,324         454,324
 
         TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM...      32,998,687      33,009,687
 
         TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.....      36,573,298      36,594,298
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2020         Senate
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
   020   SUPPLY MANAGEMENT--ARMY........          20,100          20,100
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           20,100          20,100
          ARMY..........................
 
         TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND.....          20,100          20,100
 
         DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
          ACTIVITIES, DEF
         DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER
          DRUG ACTIVITIES
   010   COUNTER-NARCOTICS SUPPORT......         163,596         163,596
         SUBTOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION AND          163,596         163,596
          COUNTER DRUG ACTIVITIES.......
 
         TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-          163,596         163,596
          DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEF..........
 
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
   010   OPERATION & MAINTENANCE........          24,254          24,254
         SUBTOTAL OFFICE OF THE                   24,254          24,254
          INSPECTOR GENERAL.............
 
         TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR            24,254          24,254
          GENERAL.......................
 
         DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
   010   IN-HOUSE CARE..................          57,459          57,459
   020   PRIVATE SECTOR CARE............         287,487         287,487
   030   CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT....           2,800           2,800
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION &                    347,746         347,746
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM...         347,746         347,746
 
         COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP
          FUND (CTEF)
         COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP
          FUND (CTEF)
   010   IRAQ...........................         745,000         645,000
             Transfer to DSCA Security                        [-100,000]
             Cooperation................
   020   SYRIA..........................         300,000         300,000
         SUBTOTAL COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND       1,045,000         945,000
          EQUIP FUND (CTEF).............
 
         TOTAL COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND          1,045,000         945,000
          EQUIP FUND (CTEF).............
 
         TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.....       1,600,696       1,500,696
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 State/Country and                                    FY 2020         Senate
          Account                  Installation              Project Title            Request       Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
ARMY
                             Alabama
Army                           Redstone Arsenal        Aircraft and Flight                38,000          38,000
                                                        Equipment Building.
                             Colorado
Army                           Fort Carson             Company Operations                 71,000          71,000
                                                        Facility.
                             Georgia
Army                           Fort Gordon             Cyber Instructional Fac           107,000          67,000
                                                        (Admin/Command).
Army                           Hunter Army Airfield    Aircraft Maintenance               62,000          62,000
                                                        Hangar.
                             Hawaii
Army                           Fort Shafter            Command and Control                60,000          60,000
                                                        Facility, Incr 5.
                             Honduras
Army                           Soto Cano AB            Aircraft Maintenance               34,000          34,000
                                                        Hangar.
                             Japan
Army                           Kadena Air Base         Vehicle Maintenance Shop.               0          15,000
                             Kentucky
Army                           Fort Campbell           General Purpose                    51,000          51,000
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
Army                           Fort Campbell           Automated Infantry                  7,100           7,100
                                                        Platoon Battle Course.
Army                           Fort Campbell           Easements................           3,200           3,200
                             Massachusetts
Army                           Soldier Systems Center  Human Engineering Lab....          50,000          50,000
                                Natick
                             Michigan
Army                           Detroit Arsenal         Substation...............          24,000          24,000
                             New York
Army                           Fort Drum               Railhead.................               0          21,000
Army                           Fort Drum               Unmanned Aerial Vehicle            23,000          23,000
                                                        Hangar.
                             North Carolina
Army                           Fort Bragg              Dining Facility..........          12,500          12,500
                             Oklahoma
Army                           Fort Sill               Adv Individual Training            73,000          73,000
                                                        Barracks Cplx, Ph2.
                             Pennsylvania
Army                           Carlisle Barracks       General Instruction                98,000          98,000
                                                        Building.
                             South Carolina
Army                           Fort Jackson            Reception Complex, Ph2...          54,000          54,000
                             Texas
Army                           Corpus Christi Army     Powertrain Facility                86,000          86,000
                                Depot                   (Machine Shop).
Army                           Fort Hood               Vehicle Bridge...........               0          18,500
Army                           Fort Hood               Barracks.................          32,000          32,000
                             Virginia
Army                           Fort Belvoir            Secure Operations and              60,000          60,000
                                                        Admin Facility.
Army                           Joint Base Langley-     Adv Individual Training            55,000          55,000
                                Eustis                  Barracks Cplx, Ph4.
                             Washington
Army                           Joint Base Lewis-       Information Systems                46,000          46,000
                                McChord                 Facility.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  70,600          70,600
                                Locations               Construction.
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Host Nation Support......          31,000          31,000
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          94,099          94,099
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Worldwide             211,000               0
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY                                                                    1,453,499       1,256,999
                               ......................
NAVY
                             Arizona
Navy                           MCAS Yuma               Bachelor Enlisted                       0          99,600
                                                        Quarters--2+2
                                                        Replacement.
Navy                           Yuma                    Hangar 95 Renovation &             90,160          90,160
                                                        Addition.
                             Australia
Navy                           Darwin                  Aircraft Parking Apron...               0          50,000
                             Bahrain Island
Navy                           SW Asia                 Electrical System Upgrade          53,360          53,360
                             California
Navy                           Camp Pendleton          I MEF Consolidated                113,869          23,000
                                                        Information Center.
Navy                           Camp Pendleton          62 Area Mess Hall and              71,700          71,700
                                                        Consolidated Warehouse.
Navy                           China Lake              Runway & Taxiway                   64,500          64,500
                                                        Extension.
Navy                           Coronado                Aircraft Paint Complex...               0          79,000
Navy                           Coronado                Aircraft Paint Complex...          79,100          79,100
Navy                           Coronado                Navy V-22 Hangar.........          86,830          86,830
Navy                           MCAS Miramar            Child Development Center.               0          37,400
Navy                           MCRD San Diego          PMO Facility Replacement.               0           9,900
Navy                           San Diego               Pier 8 Replacement (Inc).          59,353          59,353
Navy                           Seal Beach              Missile Magazines........               0          28,000
Navy                           Seal Beach              Ammunition Pier..........          95,310          95,310
Navy                           Travis AFB              Alert Force Complex......          64,000          64,000
                             Connecticut
Navy                           New London              SSN Berthing Pier 32.....          72,260          72,260
                             District of Columbia
Navy                           Naval Observatory       Master Time Clocks &               75,600          75,600
                                                        Operations Fac (Inc).
                             Florida
Navy                           Jacksonville            Targeting & Surveillance           32,420          32,420
                                                        Syst Prod Supp Fac.
Navy                           MCSF Blount Island      Police Station and EOC                  0          18,700
                                                        Facility Replacement.
                             Guam
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Machine Gun Range (Inc)..          91,287          91,287
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Bachelor Enlisted                 164,100          20,000
                                                        Quarters H.
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   EOD Compound Facilities..          61,900          61,900
                             Hawaii
Navy                           Kaneohe Bay             Bachelor Enlisted                 134,050          39,000
                                                        Quarters.
Navy                           West Loch               Magazine Consolidation,            53,790          53,790
                                                        Phase 1.
                             Italy
Navy                           Sigonella               Communications Station...          77,400          77,400
                             Japan
Navy                           Iwakuni                 VTOL Pad--South..........          15,870          15,870
Navy                           Yokosuka                Pier 5 (Berths 2 and 3)..         174,692         110,000
                             North Carolina
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            2nd Radio BN Complex,              25,650          25,650
                                                        Phase 2 (Inc).
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            ACV-AAV Maintenance                11,570          11,570
                                                        Facility Upgrades.
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            10th Marines Himars                35,110          35,110
                                                        Complex.
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            II MEF Operations Center          122,200         122,200
                                                        Replacement.
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            2nd MARDIV/2nd MLG Ops             60,130          60,130
                                                        Center Replacement.
Navy                           MCAS Cherry Point       Slocum Road Physical                    0          52,300
                                                        Security Compliance.
Navy                           MCAS Cherry Point       Aircraft Maintenance               73,970          73,970
                                                        Hangar (Inc).
Navy                           MCAS Cherry Point       F-35 Training and                  53,230          53,230
                                                        Simulator Facility.
Navy                           MCAS Cherry Point       ATC Tower & Airfield               61,340          61,340
                                                        Operations.
Navy                           MCAS Cherry Point       Flightline Utility                 51,860          51,860
                                                        Modernization (Inc).
Navy                           New River               CH-53K Cargo Loading               11,320          11,320
                                                        Trainer.
                             South Carolina
Navy                           MCRD Parris Island      Range Safety Improvements               0          37,200
                                                        and Modernization Phase
                                                        III, Chosin Range.
                             Utah
Navy                           Hill AFB                D5 Missile Motor Receipt/          50,520          50,520
                                                        Storage Fac (Inc).
                             Virginia
Navy                           Portsmouth              Dry Dock Flood Protection          48,930          48,930
                                                        Improvements.
Navy                           Quantico                Wargaming Center.........         143,350          10,000
Navy                           Yorktown                Nmc Ordnance Facilities                 0          59,000
                                                        Recapitalization, Phase
                                                        1.
                             Washington
Navy                           Bremerton               Dry Dock 4 & Pier 3                51,010          51,010
                                                        Modernization.
Navy                           Keyport                 Undersea Vehicle                   25,050          25,050
                                                        Maintenance Facility.
Navy                           Kitsap                  Seawolf Service Pier Cost-              0          48,000
                                                        to-Complete.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Navy                           Unspecified             Family Housing Mitigation               0          59,600
                                                        and Oversight.
Navy                           Unspecified             Planning and Design......               0          20,400
Navy                           Unspecified             Planning and Design......               0           8,000
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  81,237          81,237
                                Locations               Construction.
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......         167,715         167,715
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL NAVY                                                                    2,805,743       2,884,782
                               ......................
AIR FORCE
                             Alaska
Air Force                      Eielson AFB             F-35 AME Storage Facility           8,600           8,600
                             Arkansas
Air Force                      Little Rock AFB         C-130H/J Fuselage Trainer          47,000          47,000
                                                        Facility.
                             Australia
Air Force                      Tindal                  APR-RAAF Tindal/Bulk               59,000          59,000
                                                        Storage Tanks.
Air Force                      Tindal                  APR--RAAF Tindal/Earth             11,600          11,600
                                                        Covered Magazine.
                             California
Air Force                      Travis AFB              MMHS Allied Support......               0          17,000
Air Force                      Travis AFB              KC-46A Alter B181/B185/             6,600           6,600
                                                        B187 Squad Ops/AMU.
Air Force                      Travis AFB              KC-46A Regional                    19,500          19,500
                                                        Maintenance Training
                                                        Facility.
                             Colorado
Air Force                      Peterson AFB            SOCNORTH Theater                        0          54,000
                                                        Operational Support
                                                        Facility.
Air Force                      Schriever AFB           Consolidated Space                148,000          23,000
                                                        Operations Facility.
                             Cyprus
Air Force                      RAF Akrotiri            New Dormitory for 1 ERS..          27,000          27,000
                             Guam
Air Force                      Joint Region Marianas   Munitions Storage Igloos           65,000          65,000
                                                        III.
                             Illinois
Air Force                      Scott AFB               Joint Operations &                100,000          90,000
                                                        Mission Planning Center.
                             Japan
Air Force                      Kadena Air Base         Munitions Storage........               0           7,000
Air Force                      Misawa Air Base         Fuel Infrastructure                     0           5,300
                                                        Resiliency.
Air Force                      Yokota AB               Fuel Receipt &                     12,400          12,400
                                                        Distribution Upgrade.
                             Jordan
Air Force                      Azraq                   Air Traffic Control Tower          24,000          24,000
Air Force                      Azraq                   Munitions Storage Area...          42,000          42,000
                             Mariana Islands
Air Force                      Tinian                  Fuel Tanks W/ Pipeline/           109,000          10,000
                                                        Hydrant System.
Air Force                      Tinian                  Airfield Development              109,000          10,000
                                                        Phase 1.
Air Force                      Tinian                  Parking Apron............          98,000          98,000
                             Maryland
Air Force                      Joint Base Andrews      Presidential Aircraft              86,000          86,000
                                                        Recap Complex Inc 3.
                             Massachusetts
Air Force                      Hanscom AFB             MIT-Lincoln Lab (West Lab         135,000          65,000
                                                        CSL/MIF) Inc 2.
                             Missouri
Air Force                      Whiteman AFB            Consolidated Vehicle Ops                0          27,000
                                                        and MX Facility.
                             Montana
Air Force                      Malmstrom AFB           Weapons Storage and               235,000          16,000
                                                        Maintenance Facility.
                             Nevada
Air Force                      Nellis AFB              365th ISR Group Facility.          57,000          57,000
Air Force                      Nellis AFB              F-35A Munitions Assembly            8,200           8,200
                                                        Conveyor Facility.
                             New Mexico
Air Force                      Holloman AFB            NC3 Support Wrm Storage/                0          20,000
                                                        Shipping Facility.
Air Force                      Kirtland AFB            Combat Rescue Helicopter           15,500          15,500
                                                        Simulator (CRH) ADAL.
Air Force                      Kirtland AFB            UH-1 Replacement Facility          22,400          22,400
                             North Dakota
Air Force                      Minot AFB               Helo/TRFOps/AMUFacility..           5,500           5,500
                             Ohio
Air Force                      Wright-Patterson AFB    ADAL Intelligence Prod.           120,900          74,000
                                                        Complex (NASIC) Inc 2.
                             Texas
Air Force                      Joint Base San Antonio  BMT Recruit Dormitory 8..         110,000          17,000
Air Force                      Joint Base San Antonio  Aquatics Tank............          69,000          69,000
Air Force                      Joint Base San Antonio  T-XA DAL Ground Based               9,300           9,300
                                                        Trng Sys (GBTS) Sim.
Air Force                      Joint Base San Antonio  T-XMX Trng Sys                     19,000          19,000
                                                        Centrailized Trng Fac.
                             United Kingdom
Air Force                      Royal Air Force         F-35A PGM Facility.......          14,300          14,300
                                Lakenheath
                             Utah
Air Force                      Hill AFB                GBSD Mission Integration          108,000          18,000
                                                        Facility.
Air Force                      Hill AFB                Joint Advanced Tactical             6,500           6,500
                                                        Missile Storage Fac.
                             Washington
Air Force                      Fairchild AFB           Consolidated TFI Base              31,000          31,000
                                                        Operations.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force                      Unspecified Conus       Military Family Housing                 0          31,200
                                                        Civilian Personnel.
Air Force                      Unspecified Worldwide   Cost to Complete.........               0         190,000
Air Force                      Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......               0          40,000
Air Force                      Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......         142,148         142,148
                                Locations
Air Force                      Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor                  79,682          79,682
                                Locations               Construction.
                             Wyoming
Air Force                      F. E. Warren AFB        Consolidated Helo/TRF Ops/         18,100          18,100
                                                        AMU and Alert Fac.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE                                                               2,179,230       1,718,830
                               ......................
DEFENSE-WIDE
                             California
Defense-Wide                   Beale AFB               Hydrant Fuel System                33,700          33,700
                                                        Replacement.
Defense-Wide                   Camp Pendleton          Ambul Care Center/Dental           17,700          17,700
                                                        Clinic Replacement.
Defense-Wide                   Mountain View--63 RSC   Install Microgrid                       0           9,700
                                                        Controller, 750 Kw PV,
                                                        and 750 Kwh Battery
                                                        Storage.
Defense-Wide                   NAWS China Lake         Energy Storage System....               0           8,950
Defense-Wide                   NSA Monterey            Cogeneration Plant at                   0          10,540
                                                        B236.
                             Conus Classified
Defense-Wide                   Classified Location     Battalion Complex, Ph 3..          82,200          82,200
                             Florida
Defense-Wide                   Eglin AFB               SOF Combined Squadron Ops          16,500          16,500
                                                        Facility.
Defense-Wide                   Hurlburt Field          SOF Maintenance Training           18,950          18,950
                                                        Facility.
Defense-Wide                   Hurlburt Field          SOF AMU & Weapons Hangar.          72,923          72,923
Defense-Wide                   Hurlburt Field          SOF Combined Squadron              16,513          16,513
                                                        Operations Facility.
Defense-Wide                   Key West                SOF Watercraft                     16,000          16,000
                                                        Maintenance Facility.
                             Germany
Defense-Wide                   Geilenkirchen AB        Ambulatory Care Center/            30,479          30,479
                                                        Dental Clinic.
Defense-Wide                   Ramstein                Landstuhl Elementary                    0          66,800
                                                        School.
                             Guam
Defense-Wide                   Joint Region Marianas   Xray Wharf Refueling               19,200          19,200
                                                        Facility.
Defense-Wide                   NB Guam                 NSA Andersen Smart Grid                 0          16,970
                                                        and ICS Infrastructure.
                             Hawaii
Defense-Wide                   Joint Base Pearl        Install 500kw Covered                   0           4,000
                                Harbor-hickam (JBPHH)   Parking PV System &
                                                        Electric Vehicle
                                                        Charging Stations B479.
Defense-Wide                   Joint Base Pearl        SOF Undersea Operational           67,700          67,700
                                Harbor-Hickam           Training Facility.
                             Japan
Defense-Wide                   Yokosuka                Kinnick High School Inc 2         130,386          10,000
Defense-Wide                   Yokota AB               Pacific East District              20,106          20,106
                                                        Superintendent's Office.
Defense-Wide                   Yokota AB               Bulk Storage Tanks PH1...         116,305          21,000
                             Louisiana
Defense-Wide                   JRB NAS New Orleans     Distribution Switchgear..               0           5,340
                             Maryland
Defense-Wide                   Bethesda Naval          MEDCEN Addition/Altertion          96,900          96,900
                                Hospital                Incr 3.
Defense-Wide                   Fort Detrick            Medical Research                   27,846          27,846
                                                        Acquisition Building.
Defense-Wide                   Fort Meade              NSAW Recapitalize                 426,000         426,000
                                                        Building #3 Inc 2.
Defense-Wide                   NSA Bethesda            Chiller 3-9 Replacement..               0          13,840
Defense-Wide                   South Potomac           IH Water Project--CBIRF/                0          18,460
                                                        IHEODTD/Housing.
                             Mississippi
Defense-Wide                   Columbus AFB            Fuel Facilities                    16,800          16,800
                                                        Replacement.
                             Missouri
Defense-Wide                   Fort Leonard Wood       Hospital Replacement Incr          50,000          50,000
                                                        2.
Defense-Wide                   St Louis                Next NGA West (N2W)               218,800         153,000
                                                        Complex Phase 2 Inc. 2.
                             New Mexico
Defense-Wide                   White Sands Missile     Install Microgrid, 700kw                0           5,800
                                Range                   PV, 150 Kw Generator,
                                                        and Batteries.
                             North Carolina
Defense-Wide                   Camp Lejeune            SOF Marine Raider                  13,400          13,400
                                                        Regiment HQ.
Defense-Wide                   Fort Bragg              SOF Human Platform-Force           43,000          43,000
                                                        Generation Facility.
Defense-Wide                   Fort Bragg              SOF Assessment and                 12,103          12,103
                                                        Selection Training
                                                        Complex.
Defense-Wide                   Fort Bragg              SOF Operations Support             29,000          29,000
                                                        Bldg.
                             Oklahoma
Defense-Wide                   Tulsa IAP               Fuels Storage Complex....          18,900          18,900
                             Rhode Island
Defense-Wide                   Quonset State Airport   Fuels Storage Complex              11,600          11,600
                                                        Replacement.
                             South Carolina
Defense-Wide                   Joint Base Charleston   Medical Consolidated               33,300          33,300
                                                        Storage & Distrib Center.
                             South Dakota
Defense-Wide                   Ellsworth AFB           Hydrant Fuel System                24,800          24,800
                                                        Replacement.
                             Texas
Defense-Wide                   Camp Swift              Install Microgrid, 650 Kw               0           4,500
                                                        PV, & 500 Kw Generator.
Defense-Wide                   Fort Hood               Install a Central Energy                0          16,500
                                                        Plant.
                             Virginia
Defense-Wide                   Dam Neck                SOF Demolition Training            12,770          12,770
                                                        Compound Expansion.
Defense-Wide                   Def Distribution Depot  Operations Center Phase 2          98,800          98,800
                                Richmond
Defense-Wide                   Joint Expeditionary     SOF NSWG-10 Operations             32,600          32,600
                                Base Little Creek--     Support Facility.
                                Story
Defense-Wide                   Joint Expeditionary     SOF NSWG2 JSOTF Ops                13,004          13,004
                                Base Little Creek--     Training Facility.
                                Story
Defense-Wide                   NRO Headquarters        Irrigation System Upgrade               0              66
Defense-Wide                   Pentagon                Backup Generator.........           8,670           8,670
Defense-Wide                   Pentagon                Control Tower & Fire Day           20,132          20,132
                                                        Station.
                             Washington
Defense-Wide                   Joint Base Lewis-       SOF 22 STS Operations              47,700          47,700
                                McChord                 Facility.
Defense-Wide                   Naval Base Kitsap       Keyport Main Substation                 0          23,670
                                                        Replacement.
                             Wisconsin
Defense-Wide                   Gen Mitchell IAP        POL Facilities                     25,900          25,900
                                                        Replacement.
                             Worldwide Classified
Defense-Wide                   Classified Location     Mission Support Compound.          52,000          52,000
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Defense Community                       0         100,000
                                                        Infrastructure Program.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   4,950           4,950
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   8,000           8,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          29,679          29,679
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  10,000          10,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          35,472          35,472
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  31,464          31,464
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Energy Resilience and             150,000         150,000
                                Locations               Conserv. Invest. Prog..
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Contingency Construction.          10,000          10,000
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,000           3,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          14,400          14,400
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   ERCIP Design.............          10,000          10,000
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,228           3,228
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          15,000          15,000
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Exercise Related Minor             11,770          11,770
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......           4,890           4,890
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......          52,532          52,532
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......          27,000          27,000
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor                  16,736          16,736
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor                  10,000          10,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......          63,382          63,382
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL DEFENSE-WIDE                                                            2,504,190       2,527,835
                               ......................
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
                             Alabama
Army National Guard            Anniston                Enlisted Transient                      0          34,000
                                                        Training Barracks.
Army National Guard            Foley                   National Guard Readiness           12,000          12,000
                                                        Center.
                             California
Army National Guard            Camp Roberts            Automated Multipurpose             12,000          12,000
                                                        Machine Gun Range.
                             Idaho
Army National Guard            Orchard Training Area   Railroad Tracks..........          29,000          29,000
                             Maryland
Army National Guard            Havre de Grace          Combined Support                   12,000          12,000
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Massachusetts
Army National Guard            Camp Edwards            Automated Multipurpose              9,700           9,700
                                                        Machine Gun Range.
                             Minnesota
Army National Guard            New Ulm                 National Guard Vehicle             11,200          11,200
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Mississippi
Army National Guard            Camp Shelby             Automated Multipurpose              8,100           8,100
                                                        Machine Gun Range.
                             Missouri
Army National Guard            Springfield             National Guard Readiness           12,000          12,000
                                                        Center.
                             Nebraska
Army National Guard            Bellevue                National Guard Readiness           29,000          29,000
                                                        Center.
                             New Hampshire
Army National Guard            Concord                 National Guard Readiness            5,950           5,950
                                                        Center.
                             New York
Army National Guard            Jamaica Armory          National Guard Readiness                0          20,000
                                                        Center.
                             Pennsylvania
Army National Guard            Moon Township           Combined Support                   23,000          23,000
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Vermont
Army National Guard            Camp Ethan Allen        General Instruction                     0          30,000
                                                        Building (Mountain
                                                        Warfare School).
                             Washington
Army National Guard            Richland                National Guard Readiness           11,400          11,400
                                                        Center.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army National Guard            Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  15,000          15,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Army National Guard            Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          20,469          20,469
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY NATIONAL GUARD                                                       210,819         294,819
                               ......................
AIR NATIONAL GUARD
                             California
Air National Guard             Moffett Air National    Fuels/Corrosion Control                 0          57,000
                                Guard Base (NASA)       Hangar and Shops.
                             Georgia
Air National Guard             Savannah/Hilton Head    Consolidated Joint Air             24,000          24,000
                                IAP                     Dominance Hangar/Shops.
                             Missouri
Air National Guard             Rosecrans Memorial      C-130 Flight Simulator              9,500           9,500
                                Airport                 Facility.
                             Puerto Rico
Air National Guard             Luis Munoz-Marin IAP    Communications Facility..          12,500          12,500
Air National Guard             Luis Munoz-Marin IAP    Maintenance Hangar.......          37,500          37,500
                             Wisconsin
Air National Guard             Truax Field             F-35 Simulator Facility..          14,000          14,000
Air National Guard             Truax Field             Fighter Alert Shelters...          20,000          20,000
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air National Guard             Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  31,471          31,471
                                Locations               Construction.
Air National Guard             Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......          17,000          17,000
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR NATIONAL GUARD                                                        165,971         222,971
                               ......................
ARMY RESERVE
                             Delaware
Army Reserve                   Dover AFB               Army Reserve Center/BMA..          21,000          21,000
                             Wisconsin
Army Reserve                   Fort McCoy              Transient Training                 25,000          25,000
                                                        Barracks.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army Reserve                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   8,928           8,928
                                Locations               Construction.
Army Reserve                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......           6,000           6,000
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY RESERVE                                                               60,928          60,928
                               ......................
NAVY RESERVE
                             Louisiana
Navy Reserve                   New Orleans             Entry Control Facility             25,260          25,260
                                                        Upgrades.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Navy Reserve                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  24,915          24,915
                                Locations               Construction.
Navy Reserve                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......           4,780           4,780
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL NAVY RESERVE                                                               54,955          54,955
                               ......................
AIR FORCE RESERVE
                             Georgia
Air Force Reserve              Robins AFB              Consolidated Misssion              43,000          43,000
                                                        Complex Phase 3.
                             Minnesota
Air Force Reserve              Minneapolis-St Paul     Aerial Port Facility.....               0           9,800
                                IAP
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force Reserve              Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......           4,604           4,604
                                Locations
Air Force Reserve              Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  12,146          12,146
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE RESERVE                                                          59,750          69,550
                               ......................
NATO SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM
                             Worldwide Unspecified
NATO Security Investment       NATO Security           NATO Security Investment          144,040         144,040
 Program                        Investment Program      Program.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL NATO SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM                                          144,040         144,040
                               ......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION                                                      9,639,125       9,235,709
                               ......................
FAMILY HOUSING
CONSTRUCTION, ARMY
                             Germany
Construction, Army             Baumholder              Family Housing                     29,983          29,983
                                                        Improvements.
                             Korea
Construction, Army             Camp Humphreys          Family Housing New                 83,167          83,167
                                                        Construction Incr 4.
                             Pennsylvania
Construction, Army             Tobyhanna Army Depot    Family Housing                     19,000          19,000
                                                        Replacement Construction.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Construction, Army             Unspecified Worldwide   Family Housing P & D.....           9,222           9,222
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, ARMY                                                        141,372         141,372
                               ......................
O&M, ARMY
                             Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Management...............          38,898          38,898
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Services.................          10,156          10,156
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............          24,027          24,027
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous............             484             484
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............          81,065          81,065
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................          55,712          55,712
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................         128,938         128,938
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privitization              18,627          83,627
                                Locations               Support.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL O&M, ARMY                                                                 357,907         422,907
                               ......................
CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Construction, Navy and         Unspecified Worldwide   USMC DPRI/GUAM PLANNING             2,000           2,000
 Marine Corps                   Locations               AND DESIGN.
Construction, Navy and         Unspecified Worldwide   Construction Improvements          41,798          41,798
 Marine Corps                   Locations
Construction, Navy and         Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design........           3,863           3,863
 Marine Corps                   Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS                                        47,661          47,661
                               ......................
O&M, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
                             Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................          63,229          63,229
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............          19,009          19,009
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Management...............          50,122          50,122
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous............             151             151
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Services.................          16,647          16,647
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................          64,126          64,126
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............          82,611          82,611
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization              21,975         102,975
                                Locations               Support.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL O&M, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS                                                317,870         398,870
                               ......................
CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
                             Germany
Construction, Air Force        Spangdahlem AB          Construct Deficit                  53,584          53,584
                                                        Military Family Housing.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Construction, Air Force        Unspecified Worldwide   Construction Improvements          46,638          46,638
                                Locations
Construction, Air Force        Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design........           3,409           3,409
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE                                                   103,631         103,631
                               ......................
O&M, AIR FORCE
                             Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization....          22,593          87,593
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................          42,732          42,732
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Management...............          56,022          56,022
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Services.................           7,770           7,770
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............          30,283          30,283
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous............           2,144           2,144
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................          15,768          15,768
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............         117,704         117,704
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL O&M, AIR FORCE                                                            295,016         360,016
                               ......................
O&M, DEFENSE-WIDE
                             Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................           4,100           4,100
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............              82              82
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................              13              13
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................          12,906          12,906
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............              32              32
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............             645             645
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................          39,222          39,222
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL O&M, DEFENSE-WIDE                                                          57,000          57,000
                               ......................
IMPROVEMENT FUND
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Improvement Fund               Unspecified Worldwide   Administrative Expenses--           3,045           3,045
                                Locations               FHIF.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL IMPROVEMENT FUND                                                            3,045           3,045
                               ......................
UNACCMP HSG IMPROVEMENT FUND
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Unaccmp HSG Improvement        Unspecified Worldwide   Administrative Expenses--             500             500
 Fund                           Locations               UHIF.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL UNACCMP HSG IMPROVEMENT FUND                                                  500             500
                               ......................
      TOTAL FAMILY HOUSING                                                             1,324,002       1,535,002
                               ......................
DEFENSE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE
ARMY BRAC
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army BRAC                      Base Realignment &      Base Realignment and               66,111          66,111
                                Closure, Army           Closure.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY BRAC                                                                  66,111          66,111
                               ......................
NAVY BRAC
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Navy BRAC                      Unspecified Worldwide   Base Realignment &                158,349         158,349
                                Locations               Closure.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL NAVY BRAC                                                                 158,349         158,349
                               ......................
AIR FORCE BRAC
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force BRAC                 Unspecified Worldwide   DoD BRAC Activities--Air           54,066          54,066
                                Locations               Force.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE BRAC                                                             54,066          54,066
                               ......................
      TOTAL DEFENSE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE                                         278,526         278,526
                               ......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, FAMILY HOUSING, AND BRAC                           11,241,653      11,049,237
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 State or Country and                                  FY 2020        Senate
           Account                   Installation               Project Title          Request      Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
ARMY
                              Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
Army                            Guantanamo Bay Naval     OCO: Communications              22,000          22,000
                                 Station                  Facility.
Army                            Guantanamo Bay Naval     OCO: High Value Detention        88,500               0
                                 Station                  Facility.
Army                            Guantanamo Bay Naval     OCO: Detention Legal             11,800          11,800
                                 Station                  Office and Comms Ctr.
                              Worldwide Unspecified
Army                            Unspecified Worldwide    EDI: Bulk Fuel Storage....       36,000          36,000
                                 Locations
Army                            Unspecified Worldwide    EDI: Information Systems          6,200           6,200
                                 Locations                Facility.
Army                            Unspecified Worldwide    EDI/OCO Planning and             19,498          19,498
                                 Locations                Design.
Army                            Unspecified Worldwide    EDI: Minor Construction...        5,220           5,220
                                 Locations
Army                            Unspecified Worldwide    Unspecified Worldwide         9,200,000               0
                                 Locations                Construction.
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY                                                                    9,389,218         100,718
                                .......................
NAVY
                              North Carolina
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             1/8 BN HQ Replacement.....            0          20,635
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             22nd, 24th and 26th MEU               0          31,110
                                                          Headquarters Replacement.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             2D Tank BN/CO HQ and                  0          30,154
                                                          Armory Replacement.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             2D TSB HQ Replacement.....            0          17,413
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             Bachelor Enlisted Quarters            0          62,104
                                                          Replacement.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             C-12W Aircraft Maintenance            0          36,295
                                                          Hangar Replacement.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             CLB Headquarters                      0          24,788
                                                          Facilities Replacement.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             Courthouse Bay Fire                   0          21,336
                                                          Station Replacement.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             Environmental Management              0          11,658
                                                          Division Replacement.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             Fire Station Replacement,             0          21,931
                                                          Hadnot Point.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             Hadnot Point Mess Hall                0          66,023
                                                          Replacement.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             II MEF Simulation/Training            0          74,487
                                                          Center Replacement.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             LOGCOM CSP Warehouse                  0          35,874
                                                          Replacement.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             LSSS Facility Replacement.            0          26,815
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             MCAB HQ Replacement.......            0          30,109
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             MCCSSS Log Ops School.....            0         179,617
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             PMO/H&HS & MWHS-2                     0          65,845
                                                          Headquarters Replacement.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             Replace NCIS Facilities...            0          22,594
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             Replace Regimental                    0          64,155
                                                          Headquarters 2DMARDIV.
Navy                            Camp Lejeune             Replace WTBN Headquarters.            0          18,644
Navy                            MCAS Cherry Point        BT-11 Range Operations                0          14,251
                                                          Center Replacement.
Navy                            MCAS Cherry Point        Motor Transportation/                 0          32,785
                                                          Communication Shop
                                                          Replacement.
Navy                            MCAS Cherry Point        Station Academic Facility/            0          17,525
                                                          Auditorium Replacement.
                              Spain
Navy                            Rota                     EDI: Joint Mobility Center       46,840          46,840
Navy                            Rota                     EDI: In-Transit Munitions         9,960           9,960
                                                          Facility.
Navy                            Rota                     EDI: Small Craft Berthing        12,770          12,770
                                                          Facility.
                              Worldwide Unspecified
Navy                            Unspecified              Planning & Design.........            0          50,000
Navy                            Unspecified Worldwide    Planning and Design.......       25,000          25,000
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL NAVY                                                                       94,570       1,070,718
                                .......................
AIR FORCE
                              Florida
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              53 WEG Hangar.............            0          96,000
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              53 WEG HQ Facility........            0          47,000
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              53 WEG Subscale Drone                 0          53,000
                                                          Facility.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              ABM SIM...................            0          12,900
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Aerospace & Operational               0          10,400
                                                          Physiology Facility.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              AFCEC RDT&E Facilities and            0         195,000
                                                          Gate.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Aircraft Washrack.........            0          10,600
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Civil Engineer Contracting            0         130,000
                                                          USACE Complex.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Crash Fire Rescue.........            0          17,200
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Deployment Center / Flight            0          31,000
                                                          Line Dining / AAFES.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Emergency Management, EOC,            0          14,400
                                                          Alt CP.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Fire Station #2...........            0          11,000
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Fire Station Silver Flag              0           5,900
                                                          #4.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              FW AC Maintenance Fuel                0          28,000
                                                          Cell (Barn).
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Logistics Readiness                   0         102,000
                                                          Squadron Complex.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              LRS Aircraft Parts &                  0          29,000
                                                          Deployable Spares Storage
                                                          Facilities.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              New Lodge Facilities......            0         176,000
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Operations Group/                     0          18,500
                                                          Maintenance Group HQ.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              OSS / RAPCON Facility.....            0          51,000
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Relocate F-22 Formal                  0         150,000
                                                          Training Unit.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              SFS Mobility Storage                  0           2,800
                                                          Facility.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Silver Flag Facilities....            0          35,000
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Special Purpose Vehicle               0          14,000
                                                          Maintenance.
Air Force                       Tyndall AFB              Tyndall AFB Gate Complexes            0          38,000
                              Iceland
Air Force                       Keflavik                 EDI-Expand Parking Apron..       32,000          32,000
Air Force                       Keflavik                 EDI-Beddown Site Prep.....        7,000           7,000
Air Force                       Keflavik                 EDI-Airfield Upgrades--          18,000          18,000
                                                          Dangerous Cargo Pad.
                              Spain
Air Force                       Moron                    EDI-Hot Cargo Pad.........        8,500           8,500
                              Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force                       Unspecified              Planning & Design.........            0         247,000
Air Force                       Unspecified Worldwide    EDI-Hot Cargo Pad.........       29,000          29,000
                                 Locations
Air Force                       Unspecified Worldwide    EDI-MUNITIONS STORAGE AREA       39,000          39,000
                                 Locations
Air Force                       Unspecified Worldwide    EDI-ECAOS DABS/FEV EMEDS        107,000         107,000
                                 Locations                Storage.
Air Force                       Various Worldwide        EDI-P&D...................       61,438          61,438
                                 Locations
Air Force                       Various Worldwide        EDI-UMMC..................       12,800          12,800
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE                                                                 314,738       1,840,438
                                .......................
DEFENSE-WIDE
                              Germany
Defense-Wide                    Gemersheim               EDI: Logistics                   46,000          46,000
                                                          Distribution Center Annex.
                              North Carolina
Defense-Wide                    Camp Lejeune             Ambulatory Care Center                0          17,821
                                                          (Camp Geiger).
Defense-Wide                    Camp Lejeune             Ambulatory Care Center                0          27,492
                                                          (Camp Johnson).
Defense-Wide                    Camp Lejeune             Replace MARSOC ITC Team               0          30,000
                                                          Facility.
                              Worldwide Unspecified
Defense-Wide                    Unspecified Worldwide    2808 Replenishment Fund...            0       3,600,000
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL DEFENSE-WIDE                                                               46,000       3,721,313
                                .......................
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
                              Florida
Army National Guard             Panama City              National Guard Readiness              0          25,000
                                                          Center.
                              North Carolina
Army National Guard             MTA Fort Fisher          Administrative Building,              0          25,000
                                                          General Purpose.
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY NATIONAL GUARD                                                                        50,000
                                .......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION                                                      9,844,526       6,783,187
                                .......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, FAMILY HOUSING, AND BRAC                            9,844,526       6,783,187
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2020        Senate
                  Program                      Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discretionary Summary by Appropriation
  Energy and Water Development and Related
   Agencies
  Appropriation Summary:
    Energy Programs
      Nuclear energy......................       137,808        137,808
 
    Atomic Energy Defense Activities
      National nuclear security
       administration:
        Federal Salaries and Expenses.....       434,699        422,999
        Weapons activities................    12,408,603     12,478,403
        Defense nuclear nonproliferation..     1,993,302      1,964,202
        Naval reactors....................     1,648,396      1,648,396
  Total, National nuclear security            16,485,000     16,514,000
   administration.........................
 
      Environmental and other defense
       activities:
        Defense environmental cleanup.....     5,506,501      5,506,501
        Other defense activities..........     1,035,339      1,032,339
        Defense nuclear waste disposal            26,000              0
         (90M in 270 Energy)..............
  Total, Environmental & other defense         6,567,840      6,538,840
   activities.............................
  Total, Atomic Energy Defense Activities.    23,052,840     23,052,840
  Total, Discretionary Funding............    23,190,648     23,190,648
 
 
 
Nuclear Energy
  Idaho sitewide safeguards and security..       137,808        137,808
  Total, Nuclear Energy...................       137,808        137,808
 
 
Federal Salaries and Expenses
  Program direction.......................       434,699        422,999
    Alignment with FTEs authorized........                     [-11,700]
 
Weapons Activities
  Directed stockpile work
    Life extension programs and major
     alterations
      B61 Life extension program..........       792,611        792,611
      W76 Life extension program..........             0              0
      W76-2 Modification program..........        10,000         10,000
      W88 Alteration program..............       304,186        304,186
      W80-4 Life extension program........       898,551        898,551
      IW1.................................             0              0
      W87-1 Modification Program (formerly       112,011        112,011
       IW1)...............................
  Total, Life extension programs and major     2,117,359      2,117,359
   alterations............................
 
    Stockpile systems
      B61 Stockpile systems...............        71,232         71,232
      W76 Stockpile systems...............        89,804         89,804
      W78 Stockpile systems...............        81,299         81,299
      W80 Stockpile systems...............        85,811         85,811
      B83 Stockpile systems...............        51,543         51,543
      W87 Stockpile systems...............        98,262         98,262
      W88 Stockpile systems...............       157,815        157,815
  Total, Stockpile systems................       635,766        635,766
 
    Weapons dismantlement and disposition
      Operations and maintenance..........        47,500         47,500
 
    Stockpile services
      Production support..................       543,964        543,964
      Research and development support....        39,339         40,339
        UFR list--technology maturation...                       [1,000]
      R&D certification and safety........       236,235        246,235
        UFR list--technology maturation...                      [10,000]
      Management, technology, and                305,000        305,000
       production.........................
  Total, Stockpile services...............     1,124,538      1,135,538
 
    Strategic materials
      Uranium sustainment.................        94,146         94,146
      Plutonium sustainment...............             0              0
 
      Plutonium sustainment:
        Plutonium sustainment.............       691,284        691,284
        Plutonium pit production project..        21,156         21,156
  Total, Plutonium sustainment:...........       712,440        712,440
 
      Tritium sustainment.................       269,000        269,000
      Domestic uranium enrichment.........       140,000        140,000
      Lithium sustainment.................        28,800         28,800
      Strategic materials sustainment.....       256,808        256,808
  Total, Strategic materials..............     1,501,194      1,501,194
  Total, Directed stockpile work..........     5,426,357      5,437,357
 
  Research, development, test, and
   evaluation (RDT&E)
    Science
      Advanced certification..............        57,710         57,710
      Primary assessment technologies.....        95,169         95,169
      Dynamic materials properties........       133,800        133,800
      Advanced radiography................        32,544         32,544
      Secondary assessment technologies...        77,553         77,553
      Academic alliances and partnerships.        44,625         44,625
      Enhanced Capabilities for                  145,160        145,160
       Subcritical Experiments............
  Total, Science..........................       586,561        586,561
 
    Engineering
      Enhanced surety.....................        46,500         54,500
        UFR list--technology maturation...                       [8,000]
      Weapon systems engineering                       0              0
       assessment technology..............
      Delivery environments (formerly             35,945         35,945
       Weapon systems engineering
       assessment technology).............
      Nuclear survivability...............        53,932         53,932
      Enhanced surveillance...............        57,747         57,747
      Stockpile Responsiveness............        39,830         80,630
        Program expansion.................                      [40,800]
  Total, Engineering......................       233,954        282,754
 
 
    Inertial confinement fusion ignition
     and high yield
      Ignition and other stockpile                55,649         55,649
       programs...........................
      Ignition............................             0              0
      Support of other stockpile programs.             0              0
      Diagnostics, cryogenics and                 66,128         66,128
       experimental support...............
      Pulsed power inertial confinement            8,571          8,571
       fusion.............................
      Joint program in high energy density        12,000         12,000
       laboratory plasmas.................
      Facility operations and target             338,247        338,247
       production.........................
  Total, Inertial confinement fusion and         480,595        480,595
   high yield.............................
 
    Advanced simulation and computing
      Advanced simulation and computing...       789,849        789,849
      Construction:
        18-D-670, Exascale Class Computer              0              0
         Cooling Equipment, LANL..........
        18-D-620, Exascale Computing              50,000         50,000
         Facility Modernization Project,
         LLNL.............................
  Total, Construction.....................        50,000         50,000
  Total, Advanced simulation and computing       839,849        839,849
 
    Advanced manufacturing development
      Additive manufacturing..............        18,500         18,500
      Component manufacturing development.        48,410         58,410
        UFR list--technology maturation...                      [10,000]
      Process technology development......        69,998         69,998
  Total, Advanced manufacturing                  136,908        146,908
   development............................
 
  Total, RDT&E............................     2,277,867      2,336,667
 
  Infrastructure and operations
    Operating
      Operations of facilities
        Operations of facilities..........       905,000        905,000
      Safety and environmental operations.       119,000        119,000
      Maintenance and repair of facilities       456,000        456,000
      Recapitalization
        Infrastructure and safety.........       447,657        447,657
        Capability based investments......       135,341        135,341
  Total, Recapitalization.................       582,998        582,998
   Total, Operating.......................     2,062,998      2,062,998
 
    Construction:
      19-D-670, 138kV Power Transmission           6,000          6,000
       System Replacement, NNSS...........
      18-D-660, Fire Station, Y-12........             0              0
      18-D-650, Tritium Production                27,000         27,000
       Capability, SRS....................
      18-D-680, Materials staging                      0              0
       facility, PX.......................
      18-D-690, Lithium production                     0              0
       capability, Y-12...................
      18-D-690, Lithium processing                32,000         32,000
       facility, Y-12 (formerly Lithium
       production capability).............
      17-D-640, U1a Complex Enhancements          35,000         35,000
       Project, NNSS......................
      17-D-630, Expand Electrical                      0              0
       Distribution System, LLNL..........
      16-D-515, Albuquerque complex                    0              0
       project............................
      15-D-613, Emergency Operations                   0              0
       Center, Y-12.......................
      15-D-612, Emergency Operations               5,000          5,000
       Center, LLNL.......................
      15-D-611, Emergency Operations               4,000          4,000
       Center, SNL........................
      15-D-301 HE Science & Engineering          123,000        123,000
       Facility, PX.......................
      07-D-220, Radioactive liquid waste               0              0
       treatment facility upgrade project,
       LANL...............................
      07-D-220-04, Transuranic liquid                  0              0
       waste facility, LANL...............
      06-D-141, Uranium processing               745,000        745,000
       facility Y-12, Oak Ridge, TN.......
 
 
      Chemistry and metallurgy research
       replacement (CMRR)
        04-D-125, Chemistry and metallurgy       168,444        168,444
         research replacement project,
         LANL.............................
        04-D-125-04, RLUOB equipment                   0              0
         installation.....................
        04-D-125-05, PF -4 equipment                   0              0
         installation.....................
  Total, Chemistry and metallurgy research       168,444        168,444
   replacement (CMRR).....................
  Total, Construction.....................     1,145,444      1,145,444
  Total, Infrastructure and operations....     3,208,442      3,208,442
 
  Secure transportation asset
    Operations and equipment..............       209,502        209,502
    Program direction.....................       107,660        107,660
  Total, Secure transportation asset......       317,162        317,162
 
  Defense nuclear security................                            0
    Operations and maintenance............       778,213        778,213
    Security improvements program.........             0              0
    Construction:.........................                            0
      17-D-710, West end protected area                0              0
       reduction project, Y-12............
  Total, Defense nuclear security.........       778,213        778,213
 
  Information technology and cybersecurity       309,362        309,362
  Legacy contractor pensions..............        91,200         91,200
  Subtotal, Weapons activities............    12,408,603     12,478,403
 
  Adjustments
    Use of prior year balances............             0              0
  Total, Adjustments......................             0              0
  Total, Weapons Activities...............    12,408,603     12,478,403
 
 
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
  Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
   Programs
    Material management and minimization
      HEU reactor conversion..............       114,000        114,000
      Nuclear material removal............        32,925         32,925
      Material disposition................       186,608        186,608
      Laboratory and partnership support..             0              0
  Total, Material management &                   333,533        333,533
   minimization...........................
    Global material security
      International nuclear security......        48,839         48,839
      Domestic radiological security......        90,513         90,513
      International radiological security.        60,827         60,827
      Nuclear smuggling detection and            142,171        142,171
       deterrence.........................
  Total, Global material security.........       342,350        342,350
 
    Nonproliferation and arms control.....       137,267        137,267
    Defense nuclear nonproliferation R&D
      Proliferation detection.............       304,040        284,540
        Nonproliferation Stewardship                           [-19,500]
         program strategic plan...........
      Nuclear detonation detection........       191,317        191,317
      Nonproliferation fuels development..             0              0
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation        495,357        475,857
   R&D....................................
 
    Nonproliferation construction
      U. S. Construction:
        18-D-150 Surplus Plutonium                79,000         79,000
         Disposition Project..............
        99-D-143, Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel         220,000        220,000
         Fabrication Facility, SRS........
  Total, U. S. Construction:..............       299,000        299,000
  Total, Nonproliferation construction....       299,000        299,000
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation      1,607,507      1,588,007
   Programs...............................
 
  Legacy contractor pensions..............        13,700         13,700
 
  Nuclear counterterrorism and incident
   response program
    Nuclear counterterrorism and incident              0              0
     response.............................
    Emergency Operations..................        35,545         25,945
      Non-defense function realignment....                      [-9,600]
    Counterterrorism and                         336,550        336,550
     Counterproliferation.................
  Total, Nuclear counterterrorism and
   incident response
  program.................................       372,095        362,495
  Subtotal, Defense Nuclear                    1,993,302      1,964,202
   Nonproliferation.......................
  Adjustments
    Use of prior year balances............             0              0
  Total, Adjustments......................             0              0
  Subtotal, Defense Nuclear                    1,993,302      1,964,202
   Nonproliferation.......................
 
  Rescission
    Rescission of prior year balances.....             0              0
    Rescission of prior year balances                  0              0
     (Gen. Prov.).........................
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation.     1,993,302      1,964,202
 
 
Naval Reactors
  Naval reactors development..............       531,205        531,205
  Columbia-Class reactor systems                  75,500         75,500
   development............................
  S8G Prototype refueling.................       155,000        155,000
  Naval reactors operations and                  553,591        553,591
   infrastructure.........................
  Program direction.......................        50,500         50,500
  Construction:
    20-D-931, KL Fuel development                 23,700         23,700
     laboratory...........................
    19-D-930, KS Overhead Piping..........        20,900         20,900
    17-D-911, BL Fire System Upgrade......             0              0
    15-D-904, NRF Overpack Storage                     0              0
     Expansion 3..........................
    15-D-903, KL Fire System Upgrade......             0              0
    14-D-901, Spent fuel handling                238,000        238,000
     recapitalization project, NRF........
  Total, Construction.....................       282,600        282,600
  Transfer to NE--Advanced Test Reactor             ( 0)           ( 0)
   (non-add)..............................
  Total, Naval Reactors...................     1,648,396      1,648,396
 
 
Defense Environmental Cleanup
  Closure sites:
    Closure sites administration..........         4,987          4,987
  Richland:
    River corridor and other cleanup
     operations:
      River corridor and other cleanup           139,750        139,750
       operations.........................
    Central plateau remediation:
      Central plateau remediation.........       472,949        472,949
  Total, Central plateau remediation......       472,949        472,949
    Richland community and regulatory              5,121          5,121
     support..............................
 
    Construction:
      18-D-404 WESF Modifications and             11,000         11,000
       Capsule Storage....................
  Total, Construction.....................        11,000         11,000
  Total, Richland.........................       628,820        628,820
 
  Office of River Protection:
    Waste Treatment Immobilization Plant          15,000         15,000
     Commissioning........................
    Rad liquid tank waste stabilization          677,460        677,460
     and disposition......................
    Construction:
        18-D-16 Waste treatment and              640,000        640,000
         immobilization plant -LBL/Direct
         feed LAW.........................
        15-D-409 Low activity waste                    0              0
         pretreatment system, ORP.........
        01-D-16 D, High-level waste               30,000         30,000
         facility.........................
        01-D-16 E, Pretreatment Facility..        20,000         20,000
  Total, Construction.....................       690,000        690,000
 
    ORP Low-level waste offsite disposal..        10,000         10,000
  Total, Office of River protection.......     1,392,460      1,392,460
 
  Idaho National Laboratory:
    Idaho cleanup and waste disposition...       331,354        331,354
    ID Excess facilities R&D..............             0              0
    Idaho community and regulatory support         3,500          3,500
  Total, Idaho National Laboratory........       334,854        334,854
 
  NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites
    Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory         1,727          1,727
    LLNL Excess facilities R&D............       128,000        128,000
    Nuclear facility D & D Separations            15,300         15,300
     Process Research Unit................
    Nevada................................        60,737         60,737
    Sandia National Laboratories..........         2,652          2,652
    Los Alamos National Laboratory........       195,462        195,462
  Total, NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites..       403,878        403,878
 
  Oak Ridge Reservation:
    OR Nuclear facility D & D.............        93,693         93,693
    OR Excess facilities R&D..............             0              0
    U233 Disposition Program..............        45,000         45,000
    OR cleanup and waste disposition
      OR cleanup and waste disposition....        82,000         82,000
  Subtotal, OR cleanup and waste                  82,000         82,000
   disposition............................
 
      Construction:
        17-D-401 On-site waste disposal           15,269         15,269
         facility.........................
        14-D-403 Outfall 200 Mercury              49,000         49,000
         Treatment Facility...............
  Total, Construction.....................        64,269         64,269
  Total, OR cleanup and waste disposition.       146,269        146,269
 
    OR community & regulatory support.....         4,819          4,819
    OR technology development and                  3,000          3,000
     deployment...........................
  Total, Oak Ridge Reservation............       292,781        292,781
 
  Savannah River Sites:
    Savannah River risk management
     operations:
      Savannah River risk management             490,613        490,613
       operations.........................
      Construction:
        18-D-402, Emergency Operations             6,792          6,792
         Center Replacement, SR...........
  Total, Savannah River risk management          497,405        497,405
   operations.............................
 
    SR community and regulatory support...         4,749          4,749
    Radioactive liquid tank waste:
      Radioactive liquid tank waste              797,706        797,706
       stabilization and disposition......
      Construction:
        20-D-402 Advanced Manufacturing           50,000         50,000
         Collaborative Facility (AMC).....
        20-D-401 Saltstone Disposal Unit             500            500
         #10, 11, 12......................
        19-D-701 SR Security system                    0              0
         replacement......................
        18-D-402,Saltstone disposal unit          51,750         51,750
         #8/9.............................
        17-D-402--Saltstone Disposal Unit         40,034         40,034
         #7...............................
        05-D-405 Salt waste processing            20,988         20,988
         facility, SRS....................
  Total, Construction.....................       163,272        163,272
  Total, Radioactive liquid tank waste....       960,978        960,978
  Total, Savannah River Site..............     1,463,132      1,463,132
 
  Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
    Waste Isolation Pilot Plant...........       299,088        299,088
    Construction:
      15-D-411 Safety significant                 58,054         58,054
       confinement ventilation system,
       WIPP...............................
      15-D-412 Exhaust shaft, WIPP........        34,500         34,500
  Total, Construction.....................        92,554         92,554
  Total, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant......       391,642        391,642
 
  Program direction.......................       278,908        278,908
  Program support.........................        12,979         12,979
  Safeguards and Security.................       317,622        317,622
  Technology development..................             0              0
  Use of prior year balances..............             0              0
  Subtotal, Defense environmental cleanup.     5,522,063      5,522,063
 
  Rescission:
    Rescission of prior year balances.....       -15,562        -15,562
    Rescission of prior year balances                  0              0
     (Gen. Prov.).........................
  Total, Defense Environmental Cleanup....     5,506,501      5,506,501
 
 
Other Defense Activities
  Environment, health, safety and security
    Environment, health, safety and              139,628        139,628
     security.............................
    Program direction.....................        72,881         72,881
  Total, Environment, Health, safety and         212,509        212,509
   security...............................
 
  Independent enterprise assessments
    Independent enterprise assessments....        24,068         24,068
    Program direction.....................        57,211         54,211
      Non-defense function realignment....                      [-3,000]
  Total, Independent enterprise                   81,279         78,279
   assessments............................
 
  Specialized security activities.........       254,578        254,578
  Office of Legacy Management
    Legacy management.....................       283,767        283,767
    Program direction.....................        19,262         19,262
  Total, Office of Legacy Management......       303,029        303,029
 
  Defense related administrative support
    Chief financial officer...............        54,538         54,538
    Chief information officer.............       124,554        124,554
  Total, Defense related administrative          179,092        179,092
   support................................
 
  Office of hearings and appeals..........         4,852          4,852
  Subtotal, Other defense activities......     1,035,339      1,032,339
  Use of prior year balances (HA).........             0              0
  Total, Other Defense Activities.........     1,035,339      1,032,339
 
 
Defense Nuclear Waste Disposal
  Yucca mountain and interim storage......        26,000              0
  Total, Defense Nuclear Waste............        26,000              0
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   DIVISION E--ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

                         TITLE LI--PROCUREMENT

SEC. 5101. BRIEFING ON PLANS TO INCREASE READINESS OF B-1 BOMBER 
              AIRCRAFT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than January 31, 2020, the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall provide the congressional defense committees a 
briefing on the Air Force's plans to increase the readiness of the B-1 
bomber aircraft.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) A description of aircraft structural issues.
            (2) A plan for continued structural deficiency data 
        analysis and training.
            (3) Projected repair timelines.
            (4) Future mitigation strategies.
            (5) An aircrew maintainer training plan, including a plan 
        to ensure that the training pipeline remains steady, for any 
        degradation period.
            (6) A recovery timeline to meet future deployment tasking.
            (7) A plan for continued upgrades and improvements.

SEC. 5126. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE LITTORAL COMBAT 
              SHIP.

    (a) Limitation.--The text of subsection (a) of section 126 is 
hereby deemed to read as follows:
    ``(a) Limitations.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense may be 
used to exceed, and the Department may not otherwise exceed, the total 
procurement quantity of thirty-five Littoral Combat Ships, unless the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment submits to 
the congressional defense committees the certifications described in 
subsection (b).''.
    (b) Definition.--Subsection (c) of section 126 shall have no force 
or effect.

SEC. 5151. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR COMMUNICATIONS 
              SYSTEMS LACKING CERTAIN RESILIENCY FEATURES.

    The text of subsection (a) of section 151 preceding paragraph (1) 
is hereby deemed to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided under subsection (b), none of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 
2020 for the Department of Defense may be used for the procurement of a 
current or future Department of Defense communications program of 
records, and the Department may not otherwise procure a current or 
future communications program of record, unless the communications 
equipment--''.

         TITLE LII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

SEC. 5201. ENERGETICS PLAN.

    (a) Plan Required.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering shall, in coordination with the technical directors at 
defense laboratories and such other officials as the Under Secretary 
considers appropriate, develop an energetics research and development 
plan to ensure a long-term multi-domain research, development, 
prototyping, and experimentation effort that--
            (1) maintains United States technological superiority in 
        energetics technology critical to national security;
            (2) efficiently develops new energetics technologies and 
        transitions them into operational use, as appropriate; and
            (3) maintains a robust industrial base and workforce to 
        support Department of Defense requirements for energetic 
        materials.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall brief the 
congressional defense committees on the plan developed under subsection 
(a).

SEC. 5202. AMENDMENTS TO RESEARCH PROJECT TRANSACTION AUTHORITIES TO 
              ELIMINATE COST-SHARING REQUIREMENTS AND REDUCE BURDENS ON 
              USE.

    (a) Cooperative Agreements for Research Projects.--Section 2371(e) 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2);
            (2) by striking paragraph (1)(B);
            (3) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a period; and
            (4) by striking ``(e) Conditions.--(1) The Secretary of 
        Defense'' and all that follows through ``(A) to the maximum 
        extent practicable'' and inserting ``(e) Conditions.--The 
        Secretary of Defense, to the maximum extent practicable''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2371b(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``(b) Exercise of Authority.--'' 
and all that follows through ``(2) To the maximum extent practicable'' 
and inserting ``(b) Exercise of Authority.--To the maximum extent 
practicable''.

SEC. 5203. COMPARATIVE CAPABILITIES OF ADVERSARIES IN ARTIFICIAL 
              INTELLIGENCE.

    (a) Expansion of Duties of Official With Principal Responsibility 
for Coordination of Activities Relating to Development and 
Demonstration of Artificial Intelligence.--Section 238(c)(2)(I) of the 
John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
(Public Law 115-232) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(iii) that appropriate entities in the 
                        Department are reviewing all open sources 
                        publications from both the United States and 
                        outside the United States that contribute, 
                        impact, or advance artificial intelligence 
                        research and development.''.
    (b) Analysis of Comparative Capabilities of China in Artificial 
Intelligence.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide the congressional 
defense committees with an analysis and briefing that includes the 
following:
            (1) A comprehensive and national-level--
                    (A) comparison of public and private investment 
                differentiated by sector and industry;
                    (B) review of current trends in ability to set and 
                determine global standards and norms for artificial 
                intelligence technology in national security, including 
                efforts in international standard setting bodies;
                    (C) assessment of access to artificial intelligence 
                technology in national security; and
                    (D) assessment of areas and activities in which the 
                Unites States should invest in order to provide the 
                United States with technical superiority over China in 
                relevant areas of artificial intelligence.
            (2) A comprehensive assessment of relative technical 
        quality of activities in the United States and China.
            (3) A comprehensive assessment of the likelihood that 
        developments in artificial intelligence will successfully 
        transition into military systems of China.
            (4) Predicted effects on United States national security if 
        current trends in China and the United States continue.
            (5) Predicted effects of current trends on digital and 
        technology export relationships of both countries with existing 
        and new trading partners.
            (6) Assessment of the relationships that are critical and 
        in need of development in both private and public sector to 
        ensure investment in artificial intelligence to keep pace with 
        current global trends.

SEC. 5204. ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS FOR RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND 
              EVALUATION.

    (a) Additional Amount for Workforce Transformation Cyber Initiative 
Pilot Program.--The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
year 2020 by section 201 for research, development, test, and 
evaluation is hereby increased by $25,000,000, with the amount of the 
increase to be available for Information Systems Security Program (PE 
0303140D8Z) for the National Security Agency National Cryptologic 
School for cybersecurity and artificial intelligence curriculum 
development and establishment of a pilot program to enable workforce 
transformation certificate-based courses that are developed through 
this effort and then offered by Center of Academic Excellence 
Universities.
    (b) Additional Amount for Research on Advanced Digital Radar 
Systems.--The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
by section 201 for Navy research, development, test, and evaluation is 
hereby increased by $5,000,000, with the amount of the increase to be 
available for University Research Initiatives (PE 0601103N) for 
continued research on advanced digital radar systems to meet the 
evolving goals of the Department of Defense to improve threat detection 
at greater stand-off distances.
    (c) Offset.--The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
year 2020 by section 1405 for Defense Health Program is hereby 
decreased by $30,000,000, with the amount of the decrease to be taken 
from the amount made available for procurement of the Department of 
Defense Healthcare Management System Modernization.

SEC. 5205. BRIEFING ON EXPLAINABLE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.

    (a) Briefing Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall brief the 
congressional defense committees on the development and applications of 
explainable artificial intelligence.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing required under subsection (a) shall 
address the following:
            (1) The extent to which the Department of Defense currently 
        uses and prioritizes explainable artificial intelligence.
            (2) The limitations of explainable artificial intelligence 
        and the plans of the Department to address those limitations.
            (3) The future plans of the Department to require 
        explainable artificial intelligence, particularly in 
        technologies that have warfighting applications.
            (4) Any potential roadblocks to the effective deployment of 
        explainable artificial intelligence across the Department.
            (5) Identification and description of programs and 
        activities, including funding and schedule, to develop or 
        procure explainable artificial intelligence to meet defense 
        requirements and technology development goals.
            (6) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Form of Briefing.--The briefing required under subsection (a) 
shall be provided in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
supplement.
    (d) Definition of Explainable Artificial Intelligence.--In this 
section, the term `` explainable artificial intelligence'' means 
artificial intelligence that has the ability to demonstrate the 
rationale behind its decisions in order for its human user to 
comprehend and characterize the strengths and weaknesses of its 
decisionmaking process, as well as understand how it will behave in the 
future in the contexts in which it is used.

SEC. 5206. ADMINISTRATION OF CENTERS FOR MANUFACTURING INNOVATION 
              FUNDED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall make such changes 
to the administration of covered centers so as--
            (1) to encourage covered centers to leverage existing 
        workforce development programs across the Federal Government 
        and State governments in order to build successful workforce 
        development programs;
            (2) to develop metrics to evaluate the workforce 
        development performed by the covered centers, including metrics 
        on job quality, career pathways, wages and benefits, and 
        efforts to support veterans, and progress in aligning workforce 
        skillsets with the current and long-term needs of the 
        Department of Defense and the defense industrial base;
            (3) to allow metrics to vary between covered centers and be 
        updated and evaluated continuously in order to more accurately 
        evaluate covered centers with different goals and missions;
            (4) to encourage covered centers to consider developing 
        technologies that were previously funded by Federal Government 
        investment for early-stage research and development and expand 
        cross-government coordination and collaboration to achieve this 
        goal;
            (5) to provide an opportunity for increased Department of 
        Defense input and oversight from senior-level military and 
        civilian personnel on future technology roadmaps produced by 
        covered centers;
            (6) to reduce the barriers to collaboration between and 
        among multiple covered centers;
            (7) to use contracting vehicles that can increase 
        flexibility, reduce barriers for contracting with subject-
        matter experts and small and medium enterprises, enhance 
        partnerships between covered centers, and reduce the time to 
        award contracts at covered centers; and
            (8) to overcome barriers to the adoption of manufacturing 
        processes and technologies developed by the covered centers by 
        the defense and commercial industrial base, particularly small 
        and medium enterprises, by engaging with public and private 
        sector partnerships and appropriate government programs and 
        activities, including the Hollings Manufacturing Extension 
        Partnership.
    (b) Coordination With Other Activities.--The Secretary shall carry 
out this section in coordination with activities undertaken under--
            (1) the Manufacturing Technology Program established under 
        section 2521 of title 10, United States Code;
            (2) the Manufacturing Engineering Education Program 
        established under section 2196 of such title;
            (3) the Defense Manufacturing Community Support Program 
        established under section 846 of the John S. McCain National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
        232);
            (4) manufacturing initiatives of the Secretary of Commerce, 
        the head of the National Office of the Network for 
        Manufacturing Innovation Program, the Secretary of Energy, and 
        such other government and private sector organizations as the 
        Secretary of Defense considers appropriate; and
            (5) such other activities as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Definition of Covered Center.--In this section, the term 
``covered center'' means a manufacturing innovation institute that is 
funded by the Department of Defense.

SEC. 5207. COMMERCIAL EDGE COMPUTING TECHNOLOGIES AND BEST PRACTICES 
              FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WARFIGHTING SYSTEMS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report on commercial edge computing technologies and best practices for 
Department of Defense warfighting systems.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) Identification of initial warfighting system programs 
        of record that will benefit most from accelerated insertion of 
        commercial edge computing technologies and best practices, 
        resulting in significant near-term improvement in system 
        performance and mission capability.
            (2) The plan of the Department of Defense to provide 
        additional funding for the systems identified in paragraph (1) 
        to achieve fielding of accelerated commercial edge computing 
        technologies before or during fiscal year 2021.
            (3) The plan of the Department to identify, manage, and 
        provide additional funding for commercial edge computing 
        technologies more broadly over the next four fiscal years where 
        appropriate for--
                    (A) command, control, communications, and 
                intelligence systems;
                    (B) logistics systems; and
                    (C) other mission-critical systems.
            (4) A detailed description of the policies, procedures, 
        budgets, and accelerated acquisition and contracting mechanisms 
        of the Department for near-term insertion of commercial edge 
        computing technologies and best practices into military 
        mission-critical systems.

SEC. 5211. DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITION STRATEGY TO PROCURE SECURE, LOW 
              PROBABILITY OF DETECTION DATA LINK NETWORK CAPABILITY.

    The text of subsection (c) of section 211 is hereby deemed to read 
as follows:
    ``(c) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act for fiscal year 2020 for operation and maintenance for the 
Office of the Secretary of the Air Force and for operation and 
maintenance for the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, not more than 
50 percent may be obligated or expended until the date that is 15 days 
after the date on which the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and the 
Chief of Naval Operations, respectively, submit the development and 
acquisition strategy required by subsection (a).''.

SEC. 5213. LIMITATION AND REPORT ON INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION CAPABILITY 
              INCREMENT 2 ENDURING CAPABILITY.

    The text of subsection (a) of section 213 preceding paragraph (1) 
is hereby deemed to read as follows:
    ``(a) Limitation and Report.--None of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2020 for the Army may be 
obligated or expended for research, development, test, or evaluation 
for the Indirect Fire Protection Capability Increment 2 enduring 
capability, and the Department may not otherwise engage in the 
research, development, test, or evaluation on such capability, until 
the Secretary of the Army submits to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the Indirect Fire Protection Capability 
Increment 2 program that contains the following:''.

                 TITLE LIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

SEC. 5301. LIFE CYCLE SUSTAINMENT ANNUAL REPORT FOR MAJOR WEAPON 
              SYSTEMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide the 
congressional defense committees with an annual report for the life 
cycle sustainment of each major weapon system as defined in (b).
    (b) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure the report described in 
subsection (a)--
            (1) identifies a goal for material availability, material 
        reliability, and mean down time metrics for each weapons system 
        and includes an explanation of factors that may preclude the 
        Secretary of the military department concerned from meeting 
        that goal; and
            (2) reflects the period covered by the future-years defense 
        program specified by section 221 of title 10, United States 
        Code, with respect to the budget for which the budget exhibit 
        is prepared.
    (c) To be submitted by February 1st of each year.

SEC. 5302. SENSE OF SENATE ON PRIORITIZING SURVIVABLE LOGISTICS FOR THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) resilient and agile logistics are necessary to 
        implement the 2018 National Defense Strategy because it enables 
        the United States to project power and sustain the fight 
        against its strategic competitors in peacetime and during war;
            (2) the joint logistics enterprise of the Armed Forces of 
        the United States faces high-end threats from strategic 
        competitors China, Russia, and Iran, all of whom have invested 
        in anti-access area denial capabilities and gray zone tactics;
            (3) there are significant logistics shortfalls, as outlined 
        in the November 2018 final report of the Defense Science Board 
        (DSB) Task Force on Survivable Logistics, which, if left 
        unaddressed, would hamper the readiness and ability of the 
        Armed Forces of the United States to conduct operations 
        globally;
            (4) since the military departments have not shown a strong 
        commitment to funding logistics, the Secretary of Defense 
        should review the full list of recommendations listed in the 
        report described in paragraph (3) and address the chronic 
        underfunding of logistics relative to other priorities of the 
        Department of Defense.

SEC. 5303. PLAN ON SUSTAINMENT OF ROUGH TERRAIN CONTAINER HANDLER 
              FLEETS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Navy shall--
            (1) jointly develop plans for sustainment of their 
        respective RT240 Rough Terrain Container Handler (RTCH) fleets 
        to ensure operational capability of such fleets into the 2030s;
            (2) assess available modernization capabilities to enhance 
        joint deployment of such fleets; and
            (3) provide a joint briefing to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the 
        readiness of such fleets.

SEC. 5304. REQUIREMENT TO INCLUDE FOREIGN LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY IN 
              READINESS REPORTING SYSTEMS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of each military department 
shall include in the Global Readiness and Force Management Enterprise, 
for the appropriate billets with relevant foreign language 
requirements, measures of foreign language proficiency as a mandatory 
element of unit readiness reporting, to include the Defense Readiness 
Reporting Systems-Strategic (DRRS-S) and all other subordinate systems 
that report readiness data.

SEC. 5305. MONITORING OF NOISE FROM FLIGHTS AND TRAINING OF EA-18G 
              GROWLERS ASSOCIATED WITH NAVAL AIR STATION WHIDBEY 
              ISLAND.

    (a) Monitoring.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide for 
        real-time monitoring of noise from local flights of EA-18G 
        Growlers associated with Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, 
        including field carrier landing practice at Naval Outlying 
        Field (OLF) Coupeville and Ault Field.
            (2) Public availability.--The Secretary shall publish the 
        results of monitoring conducted under paragraph (1) on a 
        publicly available Internet website of the Department of 
        Defense.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the progress of monitoring 
        conducted under paragraph (1) and the results of such 
        monitoring.
    (b) Plan for Additional Monitoring.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives a plan for real-time monitoring 
        described in subsection (a)(1) of noise relating to field 
        carrier landing practice conducted above or adjacent to Olympic 
        National Park, Olympic National Forest, and Ebey's Landing 
        National Historical Reserve.
            (2) Development of plan.--The Secretary shall work with the 
        Director of the National Park Service and the Chief of the 
        Forest Service in developing the plan under paragraph (1).
    (c) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--The amount authorized to be appropriated 
        by this Act for Navy Operation and Maintenance is hereby 
        increased by $1,000,000 and the amount of such increase shall 
        be made available to carry out this section.
            (2) Offset.--The amount authorized to be appropriated by 
        this Act for Marine Corps Operation and Maintenance for SAG 
        4A4G is hereby reduced by $1,000,000.

SEC. 5306. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RESTORATION OF TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE.

    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Air Force 
should--
            (1) restore Tyndall Air Force Base to achieve military 
        installation resilience, as defined in section 101(e)(8) of 
        title 10, United States Code; and
            (2) use innovative construction methods, materials, 
        designs, and technologies in carrying out such restoration in 
        order to achieve efficiencies, cost savings, resiliency, and 
        capability, which may include--
                    (A) open architecture design to evolve with the 
                national defense strategy; and
                    (B) efficient ergonomic enterprise for members of 
                the Air Force in the 21st century.

SEC. 5318. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS WITH STATES TO ADDRESS CONTAMINATION 
              BY PERFLUORALKYL AND POLYFLRUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.

    The text of section 318(a) is hereby deemed to include at the end 
the following:
            ``(3) Other authority.--In addition to the requirements 
        under paragraph (1), when otherwise authorized to expend funds 
        for the purpose of addressing ground or surface water 
        contaminated by a perfluorinated compound, the Secretary of 
        Defense may, to expend those funds, enter into a grant 
        agreement, cooperative agreement, or contract with--
                    ``(A) the local water authority with jurisdiction 
                over the contamination site, including--
                            ``(i) a public water system (as defined in 
                        section 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 
                        U.S.C. 300f)); and
                            ``(ii) a publicly owned treatment works (as 
                        defined in section 212 of the Federal Water 
                        Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1292)); or
                    ``(B) a State, local, or Tribal government.''.

SEC. 5352. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS REGARDING THE BASING OF KC-46A 
              AIRCRAFT OUTSIDE THE CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES.

    The text of subsection (b) of section 352 is hereby deemed to read 
as follows:
    ``(b) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Not more than 85 percent of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2020 
for the Air Force for operation and maintenance for the Management 
Headquarters Program (Program Element 92398F) may be obligated or 
expended until the Secretary of the Air Force submits the report 
required by subsection (a) unless the Secretary certifies to Congress 
that the use of additional funds is mission essential.''.

              TITLE LIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 5401. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORIZED STRENGTH OF AIR FORCE RESERVE 
              SERVING ON FULL-TIME RESERVE COMPONENT DUTY FOR 
              ADMINISTRATION OF THE RESERVES OR THE NATIONAL GUARD.

    (a) In General.--The table in section 12011(a)(1) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking the matter relating to the 
Air Force Reserve and inserting the following new matter:


 
        Air Force Reserve
 
1,000                                      166          170          100
1,500                                      245          251          143
2,000                                      322          330          182
2,500                                      396          406          216
3,000                                      467          479          246
3,500                                      536          550          271
4,000                                      602          618          292
4,500                                      665          683          308
5,000                                      726          746          320
5,500                                      784          806          325
6,000                                      840          864          327
7,000                                      962          990          347
8,000                                    1,087        1,110          356
10,000                                   1,322        1,362          395
 

    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2019, and shall apply with respect to fiscal 
years beginning on or after that date.

                  TITLE LV--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

SEC. 5501. ANNUAL STATE REPORT CARD.

    Section 1111(h)(1)(C)(ii) of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6311(h)(1)(C)(ii)) is amended by striking ``on 
active duty (as defined in section 101(d)(5) of such title)''.

SEC. 5502. INFORMATION AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR REGISTRATION FOR VOTING 
              AND ABSENTEE BALLOT REQUESTS FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES UNDERGOING DEPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 45 days prior to a general election 
for Federal office, a member of the Armed Forces shall be provided with 
the following:
            (1) A Federal write-in absentee ballot prescribed pursuant 
        to section 103 of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee 
        Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 20303), together with instructions on the 
        appropriate use of the ballot with respect to the State in 
        which the member is registered to vote.
            (2) In the case of a member intending to vote in a State 
        that does not accept the Federal write-in absentee ballot as a 
        simultaneous application and acceptable ballot for Federal 
        elections, a briefing on, and an opportunity to fill out, the 
        official post card form for absentee voter registration 
        application and absentee ballot application prescribed under 
        section 101(b)(2) of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens 
        Absentee Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 20301(b)(2)).
    (b) Personnel Responsible of Discharge.--Ballots and instructions 
pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (a), and briefings and forms 
pursuant to paragraph (2) of such subsection, shall be provided by 
Voting Assistance Officers or such other personnel as the Secretary of 
the military department concerned shall designate.
    (c) Sense of Congress Relating to the Use of the Federal Write-in 
Absentee Ballot.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
                    (A) Servicemembers serving abroad are subject to 
                disproportionate challenges in voting.
                    (B) As of May, 2019, only 28 States allow 
                servicemembers to use the Federal write-in absentee 
                ballot as a simultaneous application and acceptable 
                ballot for Federal elections.
            (2) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
                    (A) Federal and State governments should remove all 
                obstacles that would inhibit deployed servicemembers 
                from voting; and
                    (B) States that do not allow servicemembers to use 
                the Federal write-in absentee ballot as a simultaneous 
                application and acceptable ballot for Federal elections 
                should modify their laws to permit such use.

SEC. 5503. STUDY ON TWO-WAY MILITARY BALLOT BARCODE TRACKING.

    (a) Study.--The Director of the Federal Voting Assistance Program 
of the Department of Defense shall conduct a study on the feasibility 
of a pilot program providing full ballot tracking of overseas military 
absentee ballots through the mail stream in a manner that is similar to 
the 2016 Military Ballot Tracking Pilot Program conducted by the 
Federal Voting Assistance Program.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Director of the Federal Voting Assistance Program 
shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the study conducted 
under subsection (a). Such report shall include--
            (1) an estimate of the costs and requirements needed to 
        conduct the pilot program described in subsection (a);
            (2) a description of organizations that would provide 
        substantial support for such a pilot program; and
            (3) a time line for the phased implementation of the pilot 
        program to all military personnel actively serving overseas.

SEC. 5504. SENSE OF SENATE ON THE HONORABLE AND DISTINGUISHED SERVICE 
              OF GENERAL JOSEPH F. DUNFORD, UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS, 
              TO THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) General Joseph F. Dunford was commissioned as a second 
        lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps in 1977.
            (2) Since 1977, General Dunford has served as an infantry 
        officer at all levels and has held numerous leadership roles, 
        including Commander of the 5th Marine Regiment during Operation 
        IRAQI FREEDOM, Commander of the International Security 
        Assistance Force and United States Forces-Afghanistan, and 
        Commander, Marine Forces United States Central Command.
            (3) General Dunford served as the 32nd Assistant Commandant 
        of the Marine Corps from October 23, 2010, to December 15, 
        2012.
            (4) General Dunford subsequently served as the 36th 
        Commandant of the Marine Corps from October 17, 2014, to 
        September 24, 2015.
            (5) General Dunford became the highest-ranking military 
        officer in the United States when he was appointed as the 19th 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on October 1, 2015.
            (6) General Dunford is only the second United States Marine 
        to hold the position of Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
            (7) During his nearly four years as Chairman of the Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff, General Dunford effectively and honorably 
        executed the duties of the office to the highest degree.
            (8) General Dunford has an extensive record of impeccable 
        service to the United States.
    (b) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States deeply appreciates the decades of 
        honorable service of General Joseph F. Dunford; and
            (2) the indispensable leadership of General Dunford and his 
        dedication to the men and women of the Armed Forces 
        demonstrates the finest example of service to the United 
        States.

SEC. 5505. PARTICIPATION OF OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES IN THE SKILLBRIDGE 
              APPRENTICESHIP AND INTERNSHIP PROGRAM FOR MEMBERS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    Section 1143(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph (3):
    ``(3) Any program under this subsection may be carried out at, 
through, or in consultation with such other departments or agencies of 
the Federal Government as the Secretary of the military department 
concerned considers appropriate.''.

SEC. 5506. PERSONNEL TEMPO OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THE UNITED STATES 
              SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND DURING PERIODS OF 
              INAPPLICABILITY OF HIGH-DEPLOYMENT LIMITATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 991(d) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) Whenever a waiver is in effect under paragraph (1), the 
member or group of members covered by the waiver shall be subject to 
specific and measurable deployment thresholds established and 
maintained for purposes of this subsection.
    ``(B) Thresholds under this paragraph may be applicable--
            ``(i) uniformly, Department of Defense-wide; or
            ``(ii) separately, with respect to each armed force and the 
        United States Special Operations Command.
    ``(C) If thresholds under this paragraph are applicable Department-
wide, such thresholds shall be established and maintained by the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. If such thresholds 
are applicable only to a separate armed force or the Under States 
Special Operations Command, such thresholds shall be established and 
maintained by the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy 
(other than with respect to the Marine Corps), the Secretary of the Air 
Force, the Commandant of the Marine Corps (with respect to the Marine 
Corps), and the Commander of the United States Special Operations 
Command, as applicable.
    ``(D) In undertaking recordkeeping for purposes of subsection (c), 
the Under Secretary shall, in conjunction with the other officials and 
officers referred to in subparagraph (C), collect complete and reliable 
personnel tempo data of members described in subparagraph (A) in order 
to ensure that the Department, the armed forces, and the United States 
Special Operations Command fully and completely monitor personnel tempo 
under a waiver under paragraph (1) and its impact on the armed 
forces.''.
    (b) Deadline for Implementation.--Paragraph (2) of section 991(d) 
of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall be 
fully implemented by not later than March 1, 2020.

SEC. 5507. REPORT AND BRIEFING ON THE SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING 
              CORPS.

    (a) Report on Various Expansions of the Corps.--Not later than one 
year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the following:
            (1) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
        distance learning programs for the Senior Reserve Officers' 
        Training Corps for students at educational institutions who 
        reside outside the viable range for a cross-town program.
            (2) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
        expanding the eligibility of institutions authorized to 
        maintain a unit of the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
        to include community colleges.
    (b) Briefing on Long-term Effects on the Corps of the Operation of 
Certain Recent Prohibitions.--
            (1) Briefing required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall brief the congressional defense committees on the effects 
        of the prohibitions in section 8032 of the Department of 
        Defense Appropriations Act, 2019 (division A of Public Law 115-
        245) on the long-term viability of the Senior Reserve Officers' 
        Training Corps (SROTC).
            (2) Elements.--The matters addressed by the briefing under 
        paragraph (1) shall include an assessment of The effects of the 
        prohibitions described in paragraph (1) on the following:
                    (A) Readiness.
                    (B) The efficient manning and administration of 
                Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps units.
                    (C) The ability of the Armed Forces to commission 
                on a yearly basis the number and quality of new 
                officers they need and that are representative of the 
                nation as a whole .
                    (D) The availability of Senior Reserve Officers' 
                Training Corps scholarships in rural areas.
                    (E) Whether the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
                Corps program produces officers representative of the 
                demographic and geographic diversity of the United 
                States, especially with respect to urban areas, and 
                whether restrictions on establishing or disestablishing 
                units of the Corps affects the diversity of the officer 
                corps of the Armed Forces.

SEC. 5508. REPORT ON SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES FOR 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THEIR FAMILIES.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 240 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report on the programs and activities of the 
Department of Defense and the Armed Forces for the prevention of 
suicide among members of the Armed Forces (including the reserve 
components) and their families.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the current programs and activities of 
        the Department and the Armed Forces for the prevention of 
        suicide among members of the Armed Forces and their families.
            (2) An assessment whether the programs and activities 
        described pursuant to paragraph (1)--
                    (A) are evidence-based and incorporate best 
                practices identified in peer-reviewed medical 
                literature;
                    (B) are appropriately resourced; and
                    (C) deliver outcomes that are appropriate relative 
                to peer activities and programs (including those 
                undertaken in the civilian community and in military 
                forces of other countries).
            (3) A description and assessment of any impediments to the 
        effectiveness of such programs and activities.
            (4) Such recommendations as the Comptroller General 
        considers appropriate for improvements to such programs and 
        activities.
            (5) Such recommendations as the Comptroller General 
        considers appropriate for additional programs and activities 
        for the prevention of suicide among members of the Armed Forces 
        and their families.

SEC. 5509. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON LOCAL PERFORMANCE OF MILITARY ACCESSION 
              PHYSICALS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The United States Military Entrance Processing Command 
        (USMEPCOM) consists of 65 Military Entrance Processing Stations 
        (MEPS) dispersed throughout the contiguous United States, 
        Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico.
            (2) Applicants who must travel to the closest Processing 
        Station are often driven by their military recruiter and 
        receive free lodging at a nearby hotel paid by the Armed Force 
        concerned.
            (3) In fiscal year 2015, the United States Military 
        Entrance Processing Command processed 473,000 applicants at its 
        Processing Stations, with an aggregate total of 931,000 
        applicant visits to such Processing Stations in that fiscal 
        year.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) permitting military accession physicals in local 
        communities would allow recruiters to focus on their core 
        recruiting mission; and
            (2) the conduct of military accession physicals in local 
        communities would permit the United States Military Entrance 
        Processing Command to reduce costly and inefficient return 
        visits by applicants to Military Entrance Processing Stations 
        and increase efficiency in its processing times.

SEC. 5510. PERMANENT AUTHORITY TO DEFER PAST AGE 64 THE RETIREMENT OF 
              CHAPLAINS IN GENERAL AND FLAG OFFICER GRADES.

    Section 1253(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraph (3).

SEC. 5546. BOARDS FOR CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS AND DISCHARGE 
              REVIEW BOARD MATTERS.

    Part III of subtitle D of title V, and the amendments made by that 
part, shall have no force or effect.

SEC. 5585. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF THE MEDAL OF HONOR TO JOHN J. 
              DUFFY FOR ACTS OF VALOR IN VIETNAM.

    Section 585 shall have no force or effect.

SEC. 5587. AUTHORITY TO AWARD OR PRESENT A DECORATION NOT PREVIOUSLY 
              RECOMMENDED IN A TIMELY FASHION FOLLOWING A REVIEW 
              REQUESTED BY CONGRESS.

    Section 587, and the amendments made by that section, shall have no 
force or effect.

          TITLE LVI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

SEC. 5601. INCLUSION OF CERTAIN VETERANS ON TEMPORARY DISABILITY OR 
              PERMANENT DISABLED RETIREMENT LISTS IN MILITARY ADAPTIVE 
              SPORTS PROGRAMS.

    (a) Inclusion of Certain Veterans.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 
2564a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``for 
members of the armed forces who'' and all that follows through the 
period at the end and inserting the following: ``for--
                    ``(A) any member of the armed forces who is 
                eligible to participate in adaptive sports because of 
                an injury, illness, or wound incurred in the line of 
                duty in the armed forces; and
                    ``(B) any veteran (as defined in section 101 of 
                title 38), during the one-year period following the 
                veteran's date of separation, who--
                            ``(i) is on the Temporary Disability 
                        Retirement List or Permanently Disabled 
                        Retirement List;
                            ``(ii) is eligible to participate in 
                        adaptive sports because of an injury, illness, 
                        or wound incurred in the line of duty in the 
                        armed forces; and
                            ``(iii) was enrolled in the program 
                        authorized under this section prior to the 
                        veteran's date of separation.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended by inserting ``and veterans'' after ``members''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2564a. Provision of assistance for adaptive sports programs: 
              members of the armed forces; certain veterans''.
            (2) Table of section.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 152 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 2564a and inserting the following 
        new item:

``2564a. Provision of assistance for adaptive sports programs: members 
                            of the armed forces; certain veterans.''.

SEC. 5602. REPORT ON EXTENSION TO MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE COMPONENTS OF 
              THE ARMED FORCES OF SPECIAL AND INCENTIVE PAYS FOR 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES NOT CURRENTLY PAYABLE TO 
              MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE COMPONENTS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report setting forth the results of 
a study, conducted by the Secretary for purposes of the report, on the 
feasability and advisability of paying eligible members of the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces any special or incentive pay for members 
of the Armed Forces that is not currently payable to members of the 
reserve components.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall set 
forth the following:
            (1) An estimate of the yearly cost of paying members of the 
        reserve components risk pay and flight pay under sections 334, 
        334a, and 351 of title 37, United States Code, at the same rate 
        as members on active duty, regardless of number of periods of 
        instruction or appropriate duty participated in, so long as 
        there is at least one such period of instruction or appropriate 
        duty in the month.
            (2) A statement of the number of members of the reserve 
        components who qualify or potentially qualify for hazardous 
        duty incentive pay based on current professions or required 
        duties, broken out by hazardous duty categories set forth in 
        section 351 of title 37, United States Code.
            (3) If the Secretary determines that payment to eligible 
        members of the reserve components of any special or incentive 
        pay for members of the Armed Forces that is not currently 
        payable to members of the reserve components is feasible and 
        advisable, such recommendations as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate for legislative or administrative action to 
        authorize such payment.

SEC. 5642. TREATMENT OF FEES OF SERVICE PROVIDED AS SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDS 
              FOR COMMISSARY OPERATIONS.

    Section 642, and the amendment made by that section, shall have no 
force or effect.

                   TITLE LVII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

SEC. 5701. CONTRACEPTIVE PARITY UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.

    The text of subsection (c) of section 701 is hereby deemed to read 
as follows:
    ``(c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
take effect on January 1, 2030.''.

SEC. 5702. EXPOSURE TO OPEN BURN PITS AND TOXIC AIRBORNE CHEMICALS AS 
              PART OF PERIODIC HEALTH ASSESSMENTS AND OTHER PHYSICAL 
              EXAMINATIONS.

    (a) Periodic Health Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
ensure that any periodic health assessment provided to members of the 
Armed Forces includes an evaluation of whether the member has been--
            (1) based or stationed at a location where an open burn pit 
        was used; or
            (2) exposed to toxic airborne chemicals, including any 
        information recorded as part of the Airborne Hazards and Open 
        Burn Pit Registry.
    (b) Separation History and Physical Examinations.--Section 
1145(a)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(C) The Secretary concerned shall ensure that each physical 
examination of a member under subparagraph (A) includes an assessment 
of whether the member was--
            ``(i) based or stationed at a location where an open burn 
        pit, as defined in subsection (c) of section 201 of the 
        Dignified Burial and Other Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act 
        of 2012 (Public Law 112-260; 38 U.S.C. 527 note), was used; or
            ``(ii) exposed to toxic airborne chemicals, including any 
        information recorded as part of the registry established by the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs under such section 201.''.
    (c) Deployment Assessments.--Section 1074f(b)(2) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
            ``(D) An assessment of whether the member was--
                    ``(i) based or stationed at a location where an 
                open burn pit, as defined in subsection (c) of section 
                201 of the Dignified Burial and Other Veterans' 
                Benefits Improvement Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-260; 
                38 U.S.C. 527 note), was used; or
                    ``(ii) exposed to toxic airborne chemicals, 
                including any information recorded as part of the 
                registry established by the Secretary of Veterans 
                Affairs under such section 201.''.
    (d) Sharing of Information.--
            (1) DOD-VA.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs shall jointly enter into a memorandum of 
        understanding providing for the sharing by the Department of 
        Defense with the Department of Veterans Affairs of the results 
        of covered evaluations regarding the exposure by a member of 
        the Armed Forces to toxic airborne chemicals.
            (2) Registry.--If a covered evaluation of a member of the 
        Armed Forces establishes that the member was based or stationed 
        at a location where an open burn pit was used, or the member 
        was exposed to toxic airborne chemicals, the member shall be 
        enrolled in the Airborne Hazards and Open Burn Pit Registry, 
        unless the member elects to not so enroll.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to preclude eligibility for benefits under the laws administered by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs by reason of the open burn pit exposure 
history of a veteran not being recorded in a covered evaluation.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``Airborne Hazards and Open Burn Pit 
        Registry'' means the registry established by the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs under section 201 of the Dignified Burial and 
        Other Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2012 (Public Law 
        112-260; 38 U.S.C. 527 note).
            (2) The term ``covered evaluation'' means--
                    (A) a periodic health assessment conducted in 
                accordance with subsection (a);
                    (B) a separation history and physical examination 
                conducted under section 1145(a)(5) of title 10, United 
                States Code, as amended by this section; and
                    (C) a deployment assessment conducted under section 
                1074f(b)(2) of such title, as amended by this section.
            (3) The term ``open burn pit'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 201(c) of the Dignified Burial and Other 
        Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-260; 
        38 U.S.C. 527 note).

SEC. 5703. PRESERVATION OF RESOURCES OF THE ARMY MEDICAL RESEARCH AND 
              MATERIEL COMMAND AND TREATMENT OF REALIGNMENT OF SUCH 
              COMMAND.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall preserve the 
resources of the Army Medical Research and Materiel Command for use by 
such command, which shall include manpower and funding, as such command 
realigns with the Army Futures Command in 2019 and the Defense Health 
Agency in 2020.
    (b) Transfer of Funds.--Upon completion of the realignment 
described in subsection (a), all amounts available for the Army Medical 
Research and Materiel Command, at the baseline for such amounts for 
fiscal year 2019, shall be transferred from accounts for research, 
development, test, and evaluation for the Army to accounts for the 
Defense Health Program.
    (c) Continuation as Center of Excellence.--After completion of the 
realignment described in subsection (a), the Army Medical Research and 
Materiel Command and Fort Detrick shall continue to serve as a Center 
of Excellence for Joint Biomedical Research, Development and 
Acquisition Management for efforts undertaken under the Defense Health 
Program.

 TITLE LVIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

SEC. 5801. REPORT ON CONTRACTS WITH ENTITIES AFFILIATED WITH THE 
              GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA OR THE 
              CHINESE COMMUNIST PARTY.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report describing all Department of Defense contracts with 
companies or business entities that are owned or operated by, or 
affiliated with, the Government of the People's Republic of China or 
the Chinese Communist Party.

SEC. 5802. DOCUMENTATION OF MARKET RESEARCH RELATED TO COMMERCIAL ITEM 
              DETERMINATIONS.

    Section 3307(d) of title 41, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Agencies shall document the results of market 
        research in a manner appropriate to the size and complexity of 
        the acquisition.''.

SEC. 5803. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES PURSUANT TO MATERIEL DEVELOPMENT 
              DECISIONS.

    (a) Timeline.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall update existing 
guidance for analyses of alternatives conducted pursuant to a materiel 
development decision for a major defense acquisition program to 
incorporate the following:
            (1) Study completion within nine months.
            (2) Study guidance issued by the Director, Cost Assessment 
        and Program Evaluation of a scope designed to provide for 
        reasonable completion of the study within the nine-month 
        period.
            (3) Procedures for waiver of the timeline requirements of 
        this subsection on a case-by-case basis if--
                    (A) the subject of the analysis is of extreme 
                technical complexity;
                    (B) collection of additional intelligence is 
                required to inform the analysis;
                    (C) insufficient technical expertise is available 
                to complete the analysis; or
                    (D) the Secretary determines that there other 
                sufficient reasons for delay of the analysis.
    (b) Reporting.--If an analysis of alternatives cannot be completed 
within the allotted time, or a waiver is used, the Secretary shall 
report to the congressional defense committees the following 
information:
            (1) For a waiver, the basis for use of the waivers, 
        including the reasons why the study cannot be completed within 
        the allotted time.
            (2) For a study estimated to take more than nine months--
                    (A) an estimate of when the analysis will be 
                completed;
                    (B) an estimate of any additional costs to complete 
                the analysis; and
                    (C) other relevant information pertaining to the 
                analysis and its completion.

      TITLE LIX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

SEC. 5901. INSTITUTIONALIZATION WITHIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF 
              RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITIES OF THE CHIEF MANAGEMENT 
              OFFICER.

    (a) Manner of Direction of Business-related Activities of Military 
Departments.--The Secretary of Defense shall determine the manner in 
which the Chief Management Officer directs the business-related 
activities of the military departments.
    (b) Responsibility for Defense Agencies and Field Activities.--The 
Secretary shall determine the responsibilities and authorities, if any, 
of the Chief Management Officer for the Defense Agencies and the 
Department of Defense Field Activities, including a determination as to 
the following:
            (1) Whether one or more additional Defense Agencies, 
        Department of Defense Field Activities, or both should provide 
        shared business services.
            (2) Which Defense Agencies, Department of Defense Field 
        Activities, or both should be required to submit their proposed 
        budgets for enterprise business operations to the Chief 
        Management Officer for review.
    (c) Assignment of Responsibilities and Authorities.--The Secretary 
shall, in light of determinations under subsections (a) and (b), assign 
the responsibilities and authorities of the Chief Management Officer 
(whether specified in statute or otherwise), and the manner of the 
discharge of such responsibilities and authorities, applicable 
Department-wide, as appropriate.
    (d) Plan of Action Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a plan, including a timeline, for 
carrying out the requirements of this section.

SEC. 5902. ALLOCATION OF FORMER RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE UNDER SECRETARY 
              OF DEFENSE FOR ACQUISITION, TECHNOLOGY, AND LOGISTICS.

    (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
            (1) In section 129a(c)(3), by striking ``The Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (2) In section 134(c), by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
            (3) In section 139--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
                        by striking ``and the Under Secretary of 
                        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
                        Logistics'' and inserting ``, the Under 
                        Secretary of Defense for Research and 
                        Engineering, and the Under Secretary of Defense 
                        for Acquisition and Sustainment''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and 
                        the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
                        Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``, 
                        the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
                        Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Acquisition and Sustainment,'';
                    (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
                Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Research and Engineering, the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment,''; and
                    (C) in subsection (h)(2), by striking ``the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
                Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Research and Engineering, the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (4) In section 139a(d)(6), by striking ``the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment,''.
            (5) In section 171(a)--
                    (A) by striking paragraphs (3) and (8);
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), (6), (7), 
                (9), (10), (11), (12), and (13) as paragraphs (5), (6), 
                (7), (8), (11), (12), (13), (14), and(15), 
                respectively;
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraphs:
            ``(3) the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering;
            ``(4) the Under Secretary of Defense of Acquisition and 
        Sustainment;''; and
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (8), as 
                redesignated by subparagraph (B), the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(9) the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
        and Engineering;
            ``(10) the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment;''.
            (6) In section 181(d)(1)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (G) 
                as subparagraphs (E) through (H), respectively;
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (C); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the 
                following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(C) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
                and Engineering.
                    ``(D) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition and Sustainment.''.
            (7) In section 393(b)(2)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) through (E) 
                as subparagraphs (D) through (F), respectively;
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(B) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
                and Engineering.
                    ``(C) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition and Sustainment.''.
            (8)(A) In section 1702--
                    (i) by striking the heading and inserting the 
                following:
``Sec. 1702. Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
              Sustainment: authorities and responsibilities''; and
                    (ii) in the text, by striking ``the Under Secretary 
                of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
                and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (B) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I 
        of chapter 87 is amended by striking the item relating to 
        section 1702 and inserting the following new item:

``1702. Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment: 
                            authorities and responsibilities.''.
            (9) In section 1705, by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (10) In section 1722, by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (11) In section 1722a, by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (12) In section 1722b(a), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
            (13) In section 1723, by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (14) In section 1725(e)(2), by striking ``the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (15) In section 1735(c)(1), by striking ``the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (16) In section 1737(c), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
            (17) In section 1741(b), by striking ``The Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
            (18) In section 1746(a), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
            (19) In section 1748, by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
            (20) In section 2222, by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (21) In section 2272, by striking ``the Assistant Secretary 
        of Defense for Research and Engineering'' and inserting ``the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering''.
            (22) In section 2275(a), by striking ``The Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
            (23) In section 2279(d), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
            (24) In section 2279b--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through 
                        (10) as paragraphs (4) through (11), 
                        respectively;
                            (ii) by striking paragraph (2); and
                            (iii) by inserting after paragraph (1) the 
                        following new paragraphs:
            ``(2) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering.
            ``(3) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c) by striking ``the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
                Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Research and Engineering, the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment,''
            (25) In section 2304, by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (26) In section 2306b(i)(7), by striking ``of Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``of Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (27) In section 2311(c), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense 
        for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (28) In section 2326(g), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
            (29) In section 2330, by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (30) In section 2334, by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (31) In section 2350a(b)(2), by striking ``the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics, and the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research 
        and Engineering'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Research and Engineering, and the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (32) In section 2359(b), by striking paragraph (1) and 
        inserting the following new paragraph (1):
            ``(1) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering.''.
            (33) In section 2359b, by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering''.
            (34) In section 2365(d)(3)(A), by striking ``the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering''.
            (35) In section 2375, by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (36) In section 2399(b)(3)--
                    (A) by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense 
                for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
                inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
                and Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition and Sustainment''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and Under Secretary'' and 
                inserting ``and the Under Secretaries''.
            (37) In section 2419(a)(1), by striking ``The Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (38) In section 2431a(b), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
            (39) In section 2435, by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (40) In section 2438(b), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense 
        for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (41) In section 2503(b)--
                    (A) by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense 
                for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
                inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
                and Engineering and the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition and Sustainment''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the Under Secretary shall'' and 
                inserting ``the Under Secretaries shall''.
            (42) In section 2508(b), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, acting 
        through the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Manufacturing and Industrial Base Policy'' and inserting ``the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (43) In section 2521, by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering''.
            (44) In section 2533b(k)(2)(A), by striking ``the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (45) In section 2546--
                    (A) in the heading of subsection (a), by striking 
                ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
                Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense 
                for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
                it appears and inserting ``the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (46) In section 2548, by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (47) In section 2902(b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
                following new paragraph (1):
            ``(1) The official within the Office of the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Research and Engineering who is responsible for 
        science and technology.'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (9) as 
                paragraphs (5) through (10), respectively;
                    (C) by striking paragraph (3); and
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraphs:
            ``(3) The official within the Office of the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Research and Engineering who is responsible for 
        environmental security.
            ``(4) The official within the Office of the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment who is responsible 
        for environmental security.''.
            (48) In section 2926(e)(5)(D), by striking ``the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
    (b) National Defense Authorization Acts.--
            (1) Public law 115-232.--Section 338 of the John S. McCain 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
        Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1728) is amended by striking ``the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (2) Public law 115-91.--Section 136(a)(1) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-
        91; 131 Stat. 1317) is amended by striking ``the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (3) Public law 114-328.--The National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended as 
        follows:
                    (A) In section 829(b) (10 U.S.C. 2306 note), by 
                striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
                ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment''.
                    (B) In section 874(b)(1) (10 U.S.C. 2375 note), by 
                striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
                ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment''.
                    (C) In section 875 (10 U.S.C. 2305 note)--
                            (i) in subsections (b), (c), (e), and (f), 
                        by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each 
                        place it appears and inserting ``Under 
                        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                        Sustainment''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (d), by striking ``The 
                        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
                        Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``The 
                        Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
                        Engineering''.
                    (D) In section 898(a)(2)(A) (10 U.S.C. 2302 note), 
                by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
                ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment''.
                    (E) In section 1652(a) (130 Stat. 2609), by 
                striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
                ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
                Engineering''.
                    (F) In section 1689(d) (130 Stat. 2631), by 
                striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
                ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
                Engineering''.
            (4) Public law 114-92.--The National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92) is amended as 
        follows:
                    (A) In section 131 (129 Stat. 754), by striking 
                ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
                Technology, and Logistics'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition and Sustainment''.
                    (B) In section 856(a)(2)(B) (10 U.S.C. 2377 note), 
                by striking ``the Office of the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
                and inserting ``the Office of the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
                    (C) In section 1111(b)(1) (10 U.S.C. 1701 note), by 
                striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
                ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment''.
                    (D) In section 1675(a) (129 Stat. 1131), by 
                striking ``The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
                ``The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
                Engineering''.
            (5) Public law 113-291.--Section 852 of the Carl Levin and 
        Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2015 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended by 
        striking ``The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
        Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``The Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (6) Public law 112-239.--Section 157(c) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public law 112-
        239; 126 Stat. 1668) is amended by striking ``The Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (7) Public law 112-81.--The National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81) is amended as 
        follows:
                    (A) In section 144 (125 Stat. 1325)--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by striking ``the 
                        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
                        Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``the 
                        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                        Sustainment''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b)(4), by striking 
                        ``the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                        Research and Engineering'' and inserting ``the 
                        Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
                        Engineering''.
                    (B) In section 836(a)(2) (22 U.S.C. 2767 note), by 
                striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, the Assistant 
                Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering,'' 
                and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Research and Engineering, the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment,''.
                    (C) In section 838(2)(B) (125 Stat. 1509), by 
                striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
                ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment''.
            (8) Public law 111-383.--Section 882(b) of the Ike Skelton 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (10 
        U.S.C. 2222 note) is amended by striking ``The Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
            (9) Public law 110-417.--Section 814 of the Duncan Hunter 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
        Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4528) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2)--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) 
                        through (H) as subparagraphs (C) through (I), 
                        respectively;
                            (ii) by striking subparagraph (A); and
                            (iii) by inserting before subparagraph (C), 
                        as redesignated by clause (i), the following 
                        new subparagraphs:
                    ``(A) The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense 
                for Research and Engineering.
                    ``(B) The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense 
                for Acquisition and Sustainment.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(5), in the flush matter 
                following subparagraph (B), by striking ``the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
                Logistics certifies to the congressional defense 
                committees, and includes'' and inserting ``the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and 
                the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment jointly certify to the congressional 
                defense committees, and include''.
            (10) Public law 110-181.--The National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181) is 
        amended as follows:
                    (A) In section 231(a) (10 U.S.C. 1701 note), by 
                striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
                ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment''.
                    (B) In section 802(a)(3)(C) (10 U.S.C. 2410p note), 
                by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
                ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment''.
                    (C) In section 821(a) (10 U.S.C. 2304 note), by 
                striking ``The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
                ``The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment''.
                    (D) In section 2864 (10 U.S.C. 2911 note), by 
                striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense 
                for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
    (c) Recommendations for Legislative Action.--Not later than 14 days 
after the President submits to Congress the budget for fiscal year 2021 
pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees such recommendations for legislative action as the 
Under Secretary considers appropriate to implement the recommendations 
of the report required by section 901 of the John S. McCain National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 
Stat. 1920).

                       TITLE LX--GENERAL MATTERS

SEC. 6001. UTILIZING SIGNIFICANT EMISSIONS WITH INNOVATIVE 
              TECHNOLOGIES.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Utilizing 
Significant Emissions with Innovative Technologies Act'' or the ``USE 
IT Act''.
    (b) Research, Investigation, Training, and Other Activities.--
Section 103 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7403) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(3), in the first sentence of the 
        matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``percursors'' 
        and inserting ``precursors''; and
            (2) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as 
                subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively, and 
                indenting appropriately;
                    (B) in the undesignated matter following 
                subparagraph (D) (as so redesignated)--
                            (i) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``The Administrator'' and inserting the 
                        following:
            ``(5) Coordination and avoidance of duplication.--The 
        Administrator''; and
                            (ii) in the first sentence, by striking 
                        ``Nothing'' and inserting the following:
            ``(4) Effect of subsection.--Nothing'';
                    (C) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as so 
                redesignated)--
                            (i) in the third sentence, by striking 
                        ``Such program'' and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Program inclusions.--The program under this 
        subsection'';
                            (ii) in the second sentence--
                                    (I) by inserting ``States, 
                                institutions of higher education,'' 
                                after ``scientists,''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``Such strategies 
                                and technologies shall be developed'' 
                                and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Participation requirement.--Such strategies and 
        technologies described in paragraph (1) shall be developed''; 
        and
                            (iii) in the first sentence, by striking 
                        ``In carrying out'' and inserting the 
                        following:
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) Certain carbon dioxide activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In carrying out paragraph (3)(A) 
                with respect to carbon dioxide, the Administrator shall 
                carry out the activities described in each of 
                subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E).
                    ``(B) Direct air capture research.--
                            ``(i) Definitions.--In this subparagraph:
                                    ``(I) Board.--The term `Board' 
                                means the Direct Air Capture Technology 
                                Advisory Board established by clause 
                                (iii)(I).
                                    ``(II) Dilute.--The term `dilute' 
                                means a concentration of less than 1 
                                percent by volume.
                                    ``(III) Direct air capture.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--The 
                                        term `direct air capture', with 
                                        respect to a facility, 
                                        technology, or system, means 
                                        that the facility, technology, 
                                        or system uses carbon capture 
                                        equipment to capture carbon 
                                        dioxide directly from the air.
                                            ``(bb) Exclusion.--The term 
                                        `direct air capture' does not 
                                        include any facility, 
                                        technology, or system that 
                                        captures carbon dioxide--

                                                    ``(AA) that is 
                                                deliberately released 
                                                from a naturally 
                                                occurring subsurface 
                                                spring; or

                                                    ``(BB) using 
                                                natural photosynthesis.

                                    ``(IV) Intellectual property.--The 
                                term `intellectual property' means--
                                            ``(aa) an invention that is 
                                        patentable under title 35, 
                                        United States Code; and
                                            ``(bb) any patent on an 
                                        invention described in item 
                                        (aa).
                            ``(ii) Technology prizes.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Not later than 1 
                                year after the date of enactment of the 
                                USE IT Act, the Administrator, in 
                                consultation with the Secretary of 
                                Energy, shall establish a program to 
                                provide, and shall provide, financial 
                                awards on a competitive basis for 
                                direct air capture from media in which 
                                the concentration of carbon dioxide is 
                                dilute.
                                    ``(II) Duties.--In carrying out 
                                this clause, the Administrator shall--
                                            ``(aa) subject to subclause 
                                        (III), develop specific 
                                        requirements for--

                                                    ``(AA) the 
                                                competition process; 
                                                and

                                                    ``(BB) the 
                                                demonstration of 
                                                performance of approved 
                                                projects;

                                            ``(bb) offer financial 
                                        awards for a project designed--

                                                    ``(AA) to the 
                                                maximum extent 
                                                practicable, to capture 
                                                more than 10,000 tons 
                                                of carbon dioxide per 
                                                year; and

                                                    ``(BB) to operate 
                                                in a manner that would 
                                                be commercially viable 
                                                in the foreseeable 
                                                future (as determined 
                                                by the Board); and

                                            ``(cc) to the maximum 
                                        extent practicable, make 
                                        financial awards to 
                                        geographically diverse 
                                        projects, including at least--

                                                    ``(AA) 1 project in 
                                                a coastal State; and

                                                    ``(BB) 1 project in 
                                                a rural State.

                                    ``(III) Public participation.--In 
                                carrying out subclause (II)(aa), the 
                                Administrator shall--
                                            ``(aa) provide notice of 
                                        and, for a period of not less 
                                        than 60 days, an opportunity 
                                        for public comment on, any 
                                        draft or proposed version of 
                                        the requirements described in 
                                        subclause (II)(aa); and
                                            ``(bb) take into account 
                                        public comments received in 
                                        developing the final version of 
                                        those requirements.
                            ``(iii) Direct air capture technology 
                        advisory board.--
                                    ``(I) Establishment.--There is 
                                established an advisory board to be 
                                known as the `Direct Air Capture 
                                Technology Advisory Board'.
                                    ``(II) Composition.--The Board 
                                shall be composed of 9 members 
                                appointed by the Administrator, who 
                                shall provide expertise in--
                                            ``(aa) climate science;
                                            ``(bb) physics;
                                            ``(cc) chemistry;
                                            ``(dd) biology;
                                            ``(ee) engineering;
                                            ``(ff) economics;
                                            ``(gg) business management; 
                                        and
                                            ``(hh) such other 
                                        disciplines as the 
                                        Administrator determines to be 
                                        necessary to achieve the 
                                        purposes of this subparagraph.
                                    ``(III) Term; vacancies.--
                                            ``(aa) Term.--A member of 
                                        the Board shall serve for a 
                                        term of 6 years.
                                            ``(bb) Vacancies.--A 
                                        vacancy on the Board--

                                                    ``(AA) shall not 
                                                affect the powers of 
                                                the Board; and

                                                    ``(BB) shall be 
                                                filled in the same 
                                                manner as the original 
                                                appointment was made.

                                    ``(IV) Initial meeting.--Not later 
                                than 30 days after the date on which 
                                all members of the Board have been 
                                appointed, the Board shall hold the 
                                initial meeting of the Board.
                                    ``(V) Meetings.--The Board shall 
                                meet at the call of the Chairperson or 
                                on the request of the Administrator.
                                    ``(VI) Quorum.--A majority of the 
                                members of the Board shall constitute a 
                                quorum, but a lesser number of members 
                                may hold hearings.
                                    ``(VII) Chairperson and vice 
                                chairperson.--The Board shall select a 
                                Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from 
                                among the members of the Board.
                                    ``(VIII) Compensation.--Each member 
                                of the Board may be compensated at not 
                                to exceed the daily equivalent of the 
                                annual rate of basic pay in effect for 
                                a position at level V of the Executive 
                                Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, 
                                United States Code, for each day during 
                                which the member is engaged in the 
                                actual performance of the duties of the 
                                Board.
                                    ``(IX) Duties.--The Board shall 
                                advise the Administrator on carrying 
                                out the duties of the Administrator 
                                under this subparagraph.
                                    ``(X) FACA.--The Federal Advisory 
                                Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall 
                                apply to the Board.
                            ``(iv) Intellectual property.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--As a condition 
                                of receiving a financial award under 
                                this subparagraph, an applicant shall 
                                agree to vest the intellectual property 
                                of the applicant derived from the 
                                technology in 1 or more entities that 
                                are incorporated in the United States.
                                    ``(II) Reservation of license.--The 
                                United States--
                                            ``(aa) may reserve a 
                                        nonexclusive, nontransferable, 
                                        irrevocable, paid-up license, 
                                        to have practiced for or on 
                                        behalf of the United States, in 
                                        connection with any 
                                        intellectual property described 
                                        in subclause (I); but
                                            ``(bb) shall not, in the 
                                        exercise of a license reserved 
                                        under item (aa), publicly 
                                        disclose proprietary 
                                        information relating to the 
                                        license.
                                    ``(III) Transfer of title.--Title 
                                to any intellectual property described 
                                in subclause (I) shall not be 
                                transferred or passed, except to an 
                                entity that is incorporated in the 
                                United States, until the expiration of 
                                the first patent obtained in connection 
                                with the intellectual property.
                            ``(v) Authorization of appropriations.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Of the amounts 
                                authorized to be appropriated for the 
                                Environmental Protection Agency, 
                                $35,000,000 shall be available to carry 
                                out this subparagraph, to remain 
                                available until expended.
                                    ``(II) Requirement.--Research 
                                carried out using amounts made 
                                available under subclause (I) may not 
                                duplicate research funded by the 
                                Department of Energy.
                            ``(vi) Termination of authority.--The Board 
                        and all authority provided under this 
                        subparagraph shall terminate not later than 10 
                        years after the date of enactment of the USE IT 
                        Act.
                    ``(C) Carbon dioxide utilization research.--
                            ``(i) Definition of carbon dioxide 
                        utilization.--In this subparagraph, the term 
                        `carbon dioxide utilization' refers to 
                        technologies or approaches that lead to the use 
                        of carbon dioxide--
                                    ``(I) through the fixation of 
                                carbon dioxide through photosynthesis 
                                or chemosynthesis, such as through the 
                                growing of algae or bacteria;
                                    ``(II) through the chemical 
                                conversion of carbon dioxide to a 
                                material or chemical compound in which 
                                the carbon dioxide is securely stored; 
                                or
                                    ``(III) through the use of carbon 
                                dioxide for any other purpose for which 
                                a commercial market exists, as 
                                determined by the Administrator.
                            ``(ii) Program.--The Administrator, in 
                        consultation with the Secretary of Energy, 
                        shall carry out a research and development 
                        program for carbon dioxide utilization to 
                        promote existing and new technologies that 
                        transform carbon dioxide generated by 
                        industrial processes into a product of 
                        commercial value, or as an input to products of 
                        commercial value.
                            ``(iii) Technical and financial 
                        assistance.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                        date of enactment of the USE IT Act, in 
                        carrying out this subsection, the 
                        Administrator, in consultation with the 
                        Secretary of Energy, shall support research and 
                        infrastructure activities relating to carbon 
                        dioxide utilization by providing technical 
                        assistance and financial assistance in 
                        accordance with clause (iv).
                            ``(iv) Eligibility.--To be eligible to 
                        receive technical assistance and financial 
                        assistance under clause (iii), a carbon dioxide 
                        utilization project shall--
                                    ``(I) have access to an emissions 
                                stream generated by a stationary source 
                                within the United States that is 
                                capable of supplying not less than 250 
                                metric tons per day of carbon dioxide 
                                for research;
                                    ``(II) have access to adequate 
                                space for a laboratory and equipment 
                                for testing small-scale carbon dioxide 
                                utilization technologies, with onsite 
                                access to larger test bays for scale-
                                up; and
                                    ``(III) have existing partnerships 
                                with institutions of higher education, 
                                private companies, States, or other 
                                government entities.
                            ``(v) Coordination.--In supporting carbon 
                        dioxide utilization projects under this 
                        paragraph, the Administrator shall consult with 
                        the Secretary of Energy, and, as appropriate, 
                        with the head of any other relevant Federal 
                        agency, States, the private sector, and 
                        institutions of higher education to develop 
                        methods and technologies to account for the 
                        carbon dioxide emissions avoided by the carbon 
                        dioxide utilization projects.
                            ``(vi) Authorization of appropriations.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Of the amounts 
                                authorized to be appropriated for the 
                                Environmental Protection Agency, 
                                $50,000,000 shall be available to carry 
                                out this subparagraph, to remain 
                                available until expended.
                                    ``(II) Requirement.--Research 
                                carried out using amounts made 
                                available under subclause (I) may not 
                                duplicate research funded by the 
                                Department of Energy.
                    ``(D) Deep saline formation report.--
                            ``(i) Definition of deep saline 
                        formation.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--In this 
                                subparagraph, the term `deep saline 
                                formation' means a formation of 
                                subsurface geographically extensive 
                                sedimentary rock layers saturated with 
                                waters or brines that have a high total 
                                dissolved solids content and that are 
                                below the depth where carbon dioxide 
                                can exist in the formation as a 
                                supercritical fluid.
                                    ``(II) Clarification.--In this 
                                subparagraph, the term `deep saline 
                                formation' does not include oil and gas 
                                reservoirs.
                            ``(ii) Report.--In consultation with the 
                        Secretary of Energy, and, as appropriate, with 
                        the head of any other relevant Federal agency 
                        and relevant stakeholders, not later than 1 
                        year after the date of enactment of the USE IT 
                        Act, the Administrator shall prepare, submit to 
                        Congress, and make publicly available a report 
                        that includes--
                                    ``(I) a comprehensive 
                                identification of potential risks and 
                                benefits to project developers 
                                associated with increased storage of 
                                carbon dioxide captured from stationary 
                                sources in deep saline formations, 
                                using existing research;
                                    ``(II) recommendations, if any, for 
                                managing the potential risks identified 
                                under subclause (I), including 
                                potential risks unique to public land; 
                                and
                                    ``(III) recommendations, if any, 
                                for Federal legislation or other policy 
                                changes to mitigate any potential risks 
                                identified under subclause (I).
                    ``(E) Report on carbon dioxide nonregulatory 
                strategies and technologies.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not less frequently than 
                        once every 2 years, the Administrator shall 
                        submit to the Committee on Environment and 
                        Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
                        Energy and Commerce of the House of 
                        Representatives a report that describes--
                                    ``(I) the recipients of assistance 
                                under subparagraphs (B) and (C); and
                                    ``(II) a plan for supporting 
                                additional nonregulatory strategies and 
                                technologies that could significantly 
                                prevent carbon dioxide emissions or 
                                reduce carbon dioxide levels in the 
                                air, in conjunction with other Federal 
                                agencies.
                            ``(ii) Inclusions.--The plan submitted 
                        under clause (i) shall include--
                                    ``(I) a methodology for evaluating 
                                and ranking technologies based on the 
                                ability of the technologies to cost 
                                effectively reduce carbon dioxide 
                                emissions or carbon dioxide levels in 
                                the air; and
                                    ``(II) a description of any nonair-
                                related environmental or energy 
                                considerations regarding the 
                                technologies.
                    ``(F) GAO report.--The Comptroller General of the 
                United States shall submit to Congress a report that--
                            ``(i) identifies all Federal grant programs 
                        in which a purpose of a grant under the program 
                        is to perform research on carbon capture and 
                        utilization technologies, including direct air 
                        capture technologies; and
                            ``(ii) examines the extent to which the 
                        Federal grant programs identified pursuant to 
                        clause (i) overlap or are duplicative.''.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
(referred to in this section as the ``Administrator'') shall submit to 
Congress a report describing how funds appropriated to the 
Administrator during the 5 most recent fiscal years have been used to 
carry out section 103 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7403), including 
a description of--
            (1) the amount of funds used to carry out specific 
        provisions of that section; and
            (2) the practices used by the Administrator to 
        differentiate funding used to carry out that section, as 
        compared to funding used to carry out other provisions of law.
    (d) Inclusion of Carbon Capture Infrastructure Projects.--Section 
41001(6) of the FAST Act (42 U.S.C. 4370m(6)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                inserting ``carbon capture,'' after ``manufacturing,'';
                    (B) in clause (i)(III), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (C) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); 
                and
                    (D) by inserting after clause (i) the following:
                            ``(ii) is covered by a programmatic plan or 
                        environmental review developed for the primary 
                        purpose of facilitating development of carbon 
                        dioxide pipelines; or''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Inclusion.--For purposes of subparagraph (A), 
                construction of infrastructure for carbon capture 
                includes construction of--
                            ``(i) any facility, technology, or system 
                        that captures, utilizes, or sequesters carbon 
                        dioxide emissions, including projects for 
                        direct air capture (as defined in paragraph 
                        (6)(B)(i) of section 103(g) of the Clean Air 
                        Act (42 U.S.C. 7403(g)); and
                            ``(ii) carbon dioxide pipelines.''.
    (e) Development of Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Sequestration 
Report, Permitting Guidance, and Regional Permitting Task Force.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                projects.--The term ``carbon capture, utilization, and 
                sequestration projects'' includes projects for direct 
                air capture (as defined in paragraph (6)(B)(i) of 
                section 103(g) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 
                7403(g))).
                    (B) Efficient, orderly, and responsible.--The term 
                ``efficient, orderly, and responsible'' means, with 
                respect to development or the permitting process for 
                carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects 
                and carbon dioxide pipelines, a process that is 
                completed in an expeditious manner while maintaining 
                environmental, health, and safety protections.
            (2) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Chair of the Council 
                on Environmental Quality (referred to in this section 
                as the ``Chair''), in consultation with the 
                Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
                the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of the Interior, 
                the Executive Director of the Federal Permitting 
                Improvement Council, and the head of any other relevant 
                Federal agency (as determined by the President), shall 
                prepare a report that--
                            (i) compiles all existing relevant Federal 
                        permitting and review information and resources 
                        for project applicants, agencies, and other 
                        stakeholders interested in the deployment of 
                        carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                        projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, 
                        including--
                                    (I) the appropriate points of 
                                interaction with Federal agencies;
                                    (II) clarification of the 
                                permitting responsibilities and 
                                authorities among Federal agencies; and
                                    (III) best practices and templates 
                                for permitting;
                            (ii) inventories current or emerging 
                        activities that transform captured carbon 
                        dioxide into a product of commercial value, or 
                        as an input to products of commercial value;
                            (iii) inventories existing initiatives and 
                        recent publications that analyze or identify 
                        priority carbon dioxide pipelines needed to 
                        enable efficient, orderly, and responsible 
                        development of carbon capture, utilization, and 
                        sequestration projects at increased scale;
                            (iv) identifies gaps in the current Federal 
                        regulatory framework for the deployment of 
                        carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                        projects and carbon dioxide pipelines; and
                            (v) identifies Federal financing mechanisms 
                        available to project developers.
                    (B) Submission; publication.--The Chair shall--
                            (i) submit the report under subparagraph 
                        (A) to the Committee on Environment and Public 
                        Works of the Senate and the Committee on Energy 
                        and Commerce of the House of Representatives; 
                        and
                            (ii) as soon as practicable, make the 
                        report publicly available.
            (3) Guidance.--
                    (A) In general.--After submission of the report 
                under paragraph (2)(B), but not later than 1 year after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Chair shall 
                submit guidance consistent with that report to all 
                relevant Federal agencies that--
                            (i) facilitates reviews associated with the 
                        deployment of carbon capture, utilization, and 
                        sequestration projects and carbon dioxide 
                        pipelines; and
                            (ii) supports the efficient, orderly, and 
                        responsible development of carbon capture, 
                        utilization, and sequestration projects and 
                        carbon dioxide pipelines.
                    (B) Requirements.--
                            (i) In general.--The guidance under 
                        subparagraph (A) shall address requirements 
                        under--
                                    (I) the National Environmental 
                                Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                                seq.);
                                    (II) the Federal Water Pollution 
                                Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
                                    (III) the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 
                                7401 et seq.);
                                    (IV) the Safe Drinking Water Act 
                                (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.);
                                    (V) the Endangered Species Act of 
                                1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
                                    (VI) division A of subtitle III of 
                                title 54, United States Code (formerly 
                                known as the ``National Historic 
                                Preservation Act'');
                                    (VII) the Migratory Bird Treaty Act 
                                (16 U.S.C. 703 et seq.);
                                    (VIII) the Act of June 8, 1940 (16 
                                U.S.C. 668 et seq.) (commonly known as 
                                the ``Bald and Golden Eagle Protection 
                                Act''); and
                                    (IX) any other Federal law that the 
                                Chair determines to be appropriate.
                            (ii) Environmental reviews.--The guidance 
                        under subparagraph (A) shall include direction 
                        to States and other interested parties for the 
                        development of programmatic environmental 
                        reviews under the National Environmental Policy 
                        Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for carbon 
                        capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                        projects and carbon dioxide pipelines.
                            (iii) Public involvement.--The guidance 
                        under subparagraph (A) shall be subject to the 
                        public notice, comment, and solicitation of 
                        information procedures under section 1506.6 of 
                        title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or a 
                        successor regulation).
                    (C) Submission; publication.--The Chair shall--
                            (i) submit the guidance under subparagraph 
                        (A) to the Committee on Environment and Public 
                        Works of the Senate and the Committee on Energy 
                        and Commerce of the House of Representatives; 
                        and
                            (ii) as soon as practicable, make the 
                        guidance publicly available.
                    (D) Evaluation.--The Chair shall--
                            (i) periodically evaluate the reports of 
                        the task forces under paragraph (4)(E) and, as 
                        necessary, revise the guidance under 
                        subparagraph (A); and
                            (ii) each year, submit to the Committee on 
                        Environment and Public Works of the Senate, the 
                        Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House 
                        of Representatives, and relevant Federal 
                        agencies a report that describes any 
                        recommendations for legislation, rules, 
                        revisions to rules, or other policies that 
                        would address the issues identified by the task 
                        forces under paragraph (4)(E).
            (4) Task force.--
                    (A) Establishment.--Not later than 18 months after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Chair shall 
                establish not less than 2 task forces, which shall each 
                cover a different geographical area with differing 
                demographic, land use, or geological issues--
                            (i) to identify permitting and other 
                        challenges and successes that permitting 
                        authorities and project developers and 
                        operators face; and
                            (ii) to improve the performance of the 
                        permitting process and regional coordination 
                        for the purpose of promoting the efficient, 
                        orderly, and responsible development of carbon 
                        capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                        projects and carbon dioxide pipelines.
                    (B) Members and selection.--
                            (i) In general.--The Chair shall--
                                    (I) develop criteria for the 
                                selection of members to each task 
                                force; and
                                    (II) select members for each task 
                                force in accordance with subclause (I) 
                                and clause (ii).
                            (ii) Members.--Each task force--
                                    (I) shall include not less than 1 
                                representative of each of--
                                            (aa) the Environmental 
                                        Protection Agency;
                                            (bb) the Department of 
                                        Energy;
                                            (cc) the Department of the 
                                        Interior;
                                            (dd) any other Federal 
                                        agency the Chair determines to 
                                        be appropriate;
                                            (ee) any State that 
                                        requests participation in the 
                                        geographical area covered by 
                                        the task force;
                                            (ff) developers or 
                                        operators of carbon capture, 
                                        utilization, and sequestration 
                                        projects or carbon dioxide 
                                        pipelines; and
                                            (gg) nongovernmental 
                                        membership organizations, the 
                                        primary mission of which 
                                        concerns protection of the 
                                        environment; and
                                    (II) at the request of a Tribal or 
                                local government, may include a 
                                representative of--
                                            (aa) not less than 1 local 
                                        government in the geographical 
                                        area covered by the task force; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) not less than 1 Tribal 
                                        government in the geographical 
                                        area covered by the task force.
                    (C) Meetings.--
                            (i) In general.--Each task force shall meet 
                        not less than twice each year.
                            (ii) Joint meeting.--To the maximum extent 
                        practicable, the task forces shall meet 
                        collectively not less than once each year.
                    (D) Duties.--Each task force shall--
                            (i) inventory existing or potential Federal 
                        and State approaches to facilitate reviews 
                        associated with the deployment of carbon 
                        capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                        projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, 
                        including best practices that--
                                    (I) avoid duplicative reviews;
                                    (II) engage stakeholders early in 
                                the permitting process; and
                                    (III) make the permitting process 
                                efficient, orderly, and responsible;
                            (ii) develop common models for State-level 
                        carbon dioxide pipeline regulation and 
                        oversight guidelines that can be shared with 
                        States in the geographical area covered by the 
                        task force;
                            (iii) provide technical assistance to 
                        States in the geographical area covered by the 
                        task force in implementing regulatory 
                        requirements and any models developed under 
                        clause (ii);
                            (iv) inventory current or emerging 
                        activities that transform captured carbon 
                        dioxide into a product of commercial value, or 
                        as an input to products of commercial value;
                            (v) identify any priority carbon dioxide 
                        pipelines needed to enable efficient, orderly, 
                        and responsible development of carbon capture, 
                        utilization, and sequestration projects at 
                        increased scale;
                            (vi) identify gaps in the current Federal 
                        and State regulatory framework and in existing 
                        data for the deployment of carbon capture, 
                        utilization, and sequestration projects and 
                        carbon dioxide pipelines;
                            (vii) identify Federal and State financing 
                        mechanisms available to project developers; and
                            (viii) develop recommendations for relevant 
                        Federal agencies on how to develop and research 
                        technologies that--
                                    (I) can capture carbon dioxide; and
                                    (II) would be able to be deployed 
                                within the region covered by the task 
                                force, including any projects that have 
                                received technical or financial 
                                assistance for research under paragraph 
                                (6) of section 103(g) of the Clean Air 
                                Act (42 U.S.C. 7403(g)).
                    (E) Report.--Each year, each task force shall 
                prepare and submit to the Chair and to the other task 
                forces a report that includes--
                            (i) any recommendations for improvements in 
                        efficient, orderly, and responsible issuance or 
                        administration of Federal permits and other 
                        Federal authorizations required under a law 
                        described in paragraph (3)(B)(i); and
                            (ii) any other nationally relevant 
                        information that the task force has collected 
                        in carrying out the duties under subparagraph 
                        (D).
                    (F) Evaluation.--Not later than 5 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Chair shall--
                            (i) reevaluate the need for the task 
                        forces; and
                            (ii) submit to Congress a recommendation as 
                        to whether the task forces should continue.

SEC. 6002. REPORTING REGARDING CANCELLED APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Assessments Required.--
            (1) Fiscal years 2009 through 2018.--Not later than 60 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
        General of the United States shall submit to the committees of 
        Congress described in paragraph (3) a report that assesses the 
        amount of appropriations cancelled under section 1552 of title 
        31, United States Code, during each of fiscal years 2009 
        through 2018.
            (2) Fiscal year 2019.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
        United States shall submit to the committees of Congress 
        described in paragraph (3) a report that assesses the amount of 
        appropriations cancelled under section 1552 of title 31, United 
        States Code, during fiscal year 2019.
            (3) Committees.--The committees of Congress described in 
        this paragraph are--
                    (A) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee 
                on Armed Services, and the Committee on the Budget of 
                the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee 
                on Armed Services, and the Committee on the Budget of 
                the House of Representatives.
    (b) Elements of Assessment.--Each assessment conducted under 
subsection (a) shall address the following:
            (1) The amount of appropriations for each agency that were 
        cancelled during each fiscal year covered by the report, 
        including--
                    (A) the name of each appropriation account from 
                which amounts were cancelled;
                    (B) for each cancelled appropriation, the fiscal 
                year for which the appropriation was made, the period 
                of availability of the appropriation, and the fiscal 
                year during which the appropriation was cancelled;
                    (C) for each fiscal year for which appropriations 
                made to the agency were cancelled, the percentage of 
                the appropriations made available to the agency for the 
                fiscal year that were cancelled; and
                    (D) whether there was an adjustment made with 
                respect to the cancelled appropriation under section 
                251(b) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
                Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)) or the cancelled 
                appropriation was otherwise excluded from being taken 
                into account for purposes of the discretionary spending 
                limits (as defined in section 250 of such Act (2 U.S.C. 
                900)).
            (2) The extent to which canceled appropriations different 
        significantly across agencies or over time.
            (3) The extent to which canceled appropriations are 
        correlated with obligation rates or the length of time.
            (4) The extent to which canceled appropriations are 
        correlated with the length of continuing resolutions in the 
        original year of the appropriation.

SEC. 6003. INCLUSION OF PROGRESS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IN 
              ACHIEVING AUDITABLE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN ANNUAL 
              REPORTS ON THE FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENT AND AUDIT 
              REMEDIATION PLAN.

    Section 240b(b)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(ix) A ranking each of the military 
                        departments and Defense Agency in order of its 
                        current progress in achieving auditable 
                        financial statements as required by law, and 
                        for each military department or Defense Agency 
                        that is so ranked in the bottom quartile, 
                        separate information from the head of such 
                        department or Defense Agency on the following:
                                    ``(I) A description of the material 
                                weaknesses of such military department 
                                or Defense Agency in achieving 
                                auditable financial statements.
                                    ``(II) The underlying causes of 
                                each such weakness.
                                    ``(III) A plan for remediating each 
                                such weakness.''.

SEC. 6004. EXEMPTION FROM CALCULATION OF MONTHLY INCOME, FOR PURPOSES 
              OF BANKRUPTCY LAWS, CERTAIN PAYMENTS FROM THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Section 101(10A) of title 11, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
                    ``(B)(i) includes any amount paid by any entity 
                other than the debtor (or in a joint case the debtor 
                and the debtor's spouse), on a regular basis for the 
                household expenses of the debtor or the debtor's 
                dependents (and, in a joint case, the debtor's spouse 
                if not otherwise a dependent); and
                            ``(ii) excludes--
                                    ``(I) benefits received under the 
                                Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et 
                                seq.);
                                    ``(II) payments to victims of war 
                                crimes or crimes against humanity on 
                                account of their status as victims of 
                                such crimes;
                                    ``(III) payments to victims of 
                                international terrorism or domestic 
                                terrorism, as those terms are defined 
                                in section 2331 of title 18, on account 
                                of their status as victims of such 
                                terrorism; and
                                    ``(IV) any monthly compensation, 
                                pension, pay, annuity, or allowance 
                                paid under title 10, 37, or 38 in 
                                connection with a disability, combat-
                                related injury or disability, or death 
                                of a member of the uniformed services, 
                                except that any retired pay excluded 
                                under this subclause shall include 
                                retired pay paid under chapter 61 of 
                                title 10 only to the extent that such 
                                retired pay exceeds the amount of 
                                retired pay to which the debtor would 
                                otherwise be entitled if retired under 
                                any provision of title 10 other than 
                                chapter 61 of that title.''.

SEC. 6005. SILVER STAR SERVICE BANNER DAY.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Congress is committed to honoring the sacrifices of 
        wounded and ill members of the Armed Forces.
            (2) The Silver Star Service Banner recognizes the members 
        of the Armed Forces and veterans who were wounded or became ill 
        while serving in combat for the United States.
            (3) The sacrifices made by members of the Armed Forces and 
        veterans on behalf of the United States should never be 
        forgotten.
            (4) May 1 is an appropriate date to designate as ``Silver 
        Star Service Banner Day''.
    (b) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 1 of title 36, United States Code, 
        is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 146. Silver Star Service Banner Day
    ``(a) Designation.--May 1 is Silver Star Service Banner Day.
    ``(b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year 
a proclamation calling on the people of the United States to observe 
Silver Star Service Banner Day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, 
and activities.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 1 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 145 the following:

``146. Silver Star Service Banner Day.''.

SEC. 6006. ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSES AND GEOMAGNETIC DISTURBANCES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' has 
        the meaning given that term in subsection (d) of section 320 of 
        the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by subsection (b) 
        of this section; and
            (2) the terms ``critical infrastructure'', ``EMP'', and 
        ``GMD'' have the meanings given such terms in section 2 of the 
        Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101).
    (b) Homeland Security.--Section 320 of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002 (6 U.S.C. 195f) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``and threat 
        assessment, response, and recovery'' after ``development''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Threat Assessment, Response, and Recovery.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection--
                    ``(A) the term `appropriate congressional 
                committees' means--
                            ``(i) the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on 
                        Armed Services, the Committee on Energy and 
                        Natural Resources, and the Committee on 
                        Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
                        Senate; and
                            ``(ii) the Committee on Homeland Security, 
                        the Committee on Armed Services, and the 
                        Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House 
                        of Representatives;
                    ``(B) the terms `prepare' and `preparedness' mean 
                the actions taken to plan, organize, equip, train, and 
                exercise to build and sustain the capabilities 
                necessary to prevent, protect against, mitigate the 
                effects of, respond to, and recover from those threats 
                that pose the greatest risk to the security of the 
                homeland, including the prediction and notification of 
                impending EMPs and GMDs; and
                    ``(C) the term `Sector-Specific Agency' has the 
                meaning given that term in section 2201.
            ``(2) Roles and responsibilities.--
                    ``(A) Distribution of information.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Beginning not later than 
                        June 19, 2020, the Secretary shall provide 
                        timely distribution of information on EMPs and 
                        GMDs to Federal, State, and local governments, 
                        owners and operators of critical 
                        infrastructure, and other persons determined 
                        appropriate by the Secretary.
                            ``(ii) Briefing.--The Secretary shall brief 
                        the appropriate congressional committees on the 
                        effectiveness of the distribution of 
                        information under clause (i).
                    ``(B) Response and recovery.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                                    ``(I) coordinate the response to 
                                and recovery from the effects of EMPs 
                                and GMDs on critical infrastructure, in 
                                coordination with the heads of 
                                appropriate Sector-Specific Agencies, 
                                and on matters related to the bulk 
                                power system, in consultation with the 
                                Secretary of Energy and the Federal 
                                Energy Regulatory Commission; and
                                    ``(II) incorporate events that 
                                include EMPs and extreme GMDs as a 
                                factor in preparedness scenarios and 
                                exercises.
                            ``(ii) Implementation.--The Secretary and 
                        the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
                        Management Agency, and on matters related to 
                        the bulk power system, the Secretary of Energy 
                        and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 
                        shall--
                                    ``(I) not later than June 19, 2020, 
                                develop plans and procedures to 
                                coordinate the response to and recovery 
                                from EMP and GMD events; and
                                    ``(II) not later than December 21, 
                                2020, conduct a national exercise to 
                                test the preparedness and response of 
                                the Nation to the effect of an EMP or 
                                extreme GMD event.
                    ``(C) Research and development.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary, in 
                        coordination with the heads of relevant Sector-
                        Specific Agencies, shall--
                                    ``(I) without duplication of 
                                existing or ongoing efforts, conduct 
                                research and development to better 
                                understand and more effectively model 
                                the effects of EMPs and GMDs on 
                                critical infrastructure (which shall 
                                not include any system or 
                                infrastructure of the Department of 
                                Defense or any system or infrastructure 
                                of the Department of Energy associated 
                                with nuclear weapons activities); and
                                    ``(II) develop technologies to 
                                enhance the resilience of and better 
                                protect critical infrastructure.
                            ``(ii) Plan.--Not later than March 26, 
                        2020, and in coordination with the heads of 
                        relevant Sector-Specific Agencies, the 
                        Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
                        congressional committees a research and 
                        development action plan to rapidly address 
                        modeling shortfall and technology development.
                    ``(D) Emergency information system.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary, in 
                        coordination with relevant stakeholders, shall 
                        implement a network of systems that are capable 
                        of providing appropriate emergency information 
                        to the public before (if possible), during, and 
                        in the aftermath of an EMP or GMD.
                            ``(ii) Briefing.--Not later than December 
                        21, 2020, the Secretary, in coordination with 
                        the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
                        Management Agency, shall brief the appropriate 
                        congressional committees regarding the system 
                        required under clause (i).
                    ``(E) Quadrennial risk assessments.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary, in 
                        coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the 
                        Secretary of Energy, and the Secretary of 
                        Commerce, and informed by intelligence-based 
                        threat assessments, shall conduct a quadrennial 
                        EMP and GMD risk assessment.
                            ``(ii) Briefings.--Not later than March 26, 
                        2020, and every 4 years thereafter until 2032, 
                        the Secretary, the Secretary of Defense, the 
                        Secretary of Energy, and the Secretary of 
                        Commerce shall provide a briefing to the 
                        appropriate congressional committees regarding 
                        the quadrennial EMP and GMD risk assessment.
                            ``(iii) Enhancing resilience.--The 
                        Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary 
                        of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, the 
                        Secretary of Commerce, and the heads of other 
                        relevant Sector-Specific Agencies, shall use 
                        the results of the quadrennial EMP and GMD risk 
                        assessments to better understand and to improve 
                        resilience to the effects of EMPs and GMDs 
                        across all critical infrastructure sectors, 
                        including coordinating the prioritization of 
                        critical infrastructure at greatest risk to the 
                        effects of EMPs and GMDs.
            ``(3) Coordination.--
                    ``(A) Report on technological options.--Not later 
                than December 21, 2020, and every 4 years thereafter 
                until 2032, the Secretary, in coordination with the 
                Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, the 
                heads of other appropriate agencies, and, as 
                appropriate, private-sector partners, shall submit to 
                the appropriate congressional committees, a report 
                that--
                            ``(i) assesses the technological options 
                        available to improve the resilience of critical 
                        infrastructure to the effects of EMPs and GMDs; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) identifies gaps in available 
                        technologies and opportunities for 
                        technological developments to inform research 
                        and development activities.
                    ``(B) Test data.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than December 
                        20, 2020, the Secretary, in coordination with 
                        the heads of Sector-Specific Agencies, the 
                        Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of 
                        Energy, shall--
                                    ``(I) review test data regarding 
                                the effects of EMPs and GMDs on 
                                critical infrastructure systems, 
                                networks, and assets representative of 
                                those throughout the Nation; and
                                    ``(II) identify any gaps in the 
                                test data.
                            ``(ii) Plan.--Not later than 180 days after 
                        identifying gaps in test data under clause (i), 
                        the Secretary, in coordination with the heads 
                        of Sector-Specific Agencies and in consultation 
                        with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary 
                        of Energy, shall use the sector partnership 
                        structure identified in the National 
                        Infrastructure Protection Plan to develop an 
                        integrated cross-sector plan to address the 
                        identified gaps.
                            ``(iii) Implementation.--The heads of each 
                        agency identified in the plan developed under 
                        clause (ii) shall implement the plan in 
                        collaboration with the voluntary efforts of the 
                        private sector, as appropriate.
    ``(e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to affect in any manner the authority, existing on the day 
before the date of enactment of this subsection, of any other component 
of the Department or any other Federal department or agency, including 
the authority provided to the Sector-Specific Agency specified in 
section 61003(c) of division F of the Fixing America's Surface 
Transportation Act (6 U.S.C. 121 note), including the authority under 
section 215 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 824o), and including 
the authority of independent agencies to be independent.''.
    (c) National Essential Functions.--
            (1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``national 
        essential functions'' means the overarching responsibilities of 
        the Federal Government to lead and sustain the Nation before, 
        during, and in the aftermath of a catastrophic emergency, such 
        as an EMP or GMD that adversely affects the performance of the 
        Federal Government.
            (2) Updated operational plans.--Not later than March 20, 
        2020, each agency that supports a national essential function 
        shall prepare updated operational plans documenting the 
        procedures and responsibilities of the agency relating to 
        preparing for, protecting against, and mitigating the effects 
        of EMPs and GMDs.
    (d) Benchmarks.--Not later than March 26, 2020, and as appropriate 
thereafter, the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and, as appropriate, 
the private sector, may develop or update, as necessary, quantitative 
and voluntary benchmarks that sufficiently describe the physical 
characteristics of EMPs, including waveform and intensity, in a form 
that is useful to and can be shared with owners and operators of 
critical infrastructure. Nothing in this subsection shall affect the 
authority of the Electric Reliability Organization to develop and 
enforce, or the authority of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to approve, reliability standards.
    (e) Pilot Test by DHS to Evaluate Engineering Approaches.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than September 22, 2020, the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the 
        Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Energy, and in 
        consultation with the private sector, as appropriate, shall 
        develop and implement a pilot test to evaluate available 
        engineering approaches for mitigating the effects of EMPs and 
        GMDs on the most vulnerable critical infrastructure systems, 
        networks, and assets.
            (2) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which the pilot test described in paragraph (1) is completed, 
        the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the 
        Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Energy, shall jointly 
        brief the appropriate congressional committees on the cost and 
        effectiveness of the evaluated approaches.
    (f) Pilot Test by DOD to Evaluate Engineering Approaches.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than September 22, 2020, the 
        Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security and the Secretary of Energy, shall conduct a 
        pilot test to evaluate engineering approaches for hardening a 
        strategic military installation, including infrastructure that 
        is critical to supporting that installation, against the 
        effects of EMPs and GMDs.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 180 days after completing the 
        pilot test described in paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense 
        shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        report regarding the cost and effectiveness of the evaluated 
        approaches.
    (g) Communications Operational Plans.--Not later than December 21, 
2020, the Secretary of Homeland Security, after holding a series of 
joint meetings with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
Commerce, the Federal Communications Commission, and the Secretary of 
Transportation shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
a report--
            (1) assessing the effects of EMPs and GMDs on critical 
        communications infrastructure; and
            (2) recommending any necessary changes to operational plans 
        to enhance national response and recovery efforts after an EMP 
        or GMD.
    (h) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections in 
section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by 
striking the item relating to section 320 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 320. EMP and GMD mitigation research and development and threat 
                            assessment, response, and recovery.''.

SEC. 6007. TERMINATION OF LEASES OF PREMISES AND MOTOR VEHICLES OF 
              SERVICEMEMBERS WHO INCUR CATASTROPHIC INJURY OR ILLNESS 
              OR DIE WHILE IN MILITARY SERVICE.

    (a) Catastrophic Injuries and Illnesses.--Subsection (a) of section 
305 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 3955), as amended 
by section 301 of the Veterans Benefits and Transition Act of 2018 
(Public Law 115-407), is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Catastrophic injury or illness of lessee.--The spouse 
        of the lessee on a lease described in subsection (b) may 
        terminate the lease during the one-year period beginning on the 
        date on which the lessee incurs a catastrophic injury or 
        illness (as that term is defined in section 439(g) of title 37, 
        United States Code), if the lessee incurs the catastrophic 
        injury or illness during a period of military service or while 
        performing full-time National Guard duty, active Guard and 
        Reserve duty, or inactive-duty training (as such terms are 
        defined in section 101(d) of title 10, United States Code).''.
    (b) Deaths.--Paragraph (3) of such subsection is amended by 
striking ``in subsection (b)(1)'' and inserting ``in subsection (b)''.

SEC. 6008. IMPROVEMENTS TO NETWORK FOR MANUFACTURING INNOVATION 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Alternate Program Name.--Subsection (a) of section 34 of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278s) is 
amended by inserting ``or as `Manufacturing USA''' after ``as the 
`Network for Manufacturing Innovation Program'''.
    (b) Centers for Manufacturing Innovation.--Subsection (c) of such 
section is amended--
            (1) in subparagraphs (B) and (C)(i) of paragraph (1), by 
        striking ``and tool development for microelectronics'' both 
        places it appears and inserting ``tool development for 
        microelectronics, food manufacturing, superconductors, advanced 
        battery technologies, robotics, advanced sensors, quantum 
        information science, supply chain water optimization, 
        aeronautics and advanced materials, and graphene and graphene 
        commercialization'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(D), by striking ``and minority'' and 
        inserting ``, minority, and veteran''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ``, but such'' and all 
        that follows through ``under subsection (d)''.
    (c) Financial Assistance To Establish and Support Centers for 
Manufacturing Innovation.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out the Program, the 
        Secretary shall award financial assistance to the following:
                    ``(A) To a person or group of persons to assist the 
                person or group of persons in planning, establishing, 
                or supporting a center for manufacturing innovation.
                    ``(B) To a center for manufacturing innovation, 
                including a center that was not established using 
                Federal funds, to support workforce development, cross-
                center projects, and other efforts which support the 
                purposes of the Program.'';
            (2) in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), by striking ``under 
        paragraph (1)'' each place it appears and inserting ``under 
        paragraph (1)(A)'';
            (3) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``; and'' 
                        and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) in clause (ii)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``, including 
                                appropriate measures for assessing the 
                                effectiveness of the activities funded 
                                with regards to the center's success in 
                                advancing the current state of the 
                                applicable advanced manufacturing 
                                technology area such as technology 
                                readiness level and manufacturing 
                                readiness level,'' after ``measures''; 
                                and
                                    (II) by striking the period at the 
                                end and inserting a semicolon; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(iii) establish standards for the 
                        performance of centers for manufacturing 
                        innovation that are based on the measures 
                        developed under clause (ii); and
                            ``(iv) for each center for manufacturing 
                        innovation supported by the award, 5 years 
                        after the initial award and every 5 years 
                        thereafter until Federal funding is 
                        discontinued, conduct an assessment of the 
                        center to confirm whether the performance of 
                        the center is meeting the standards for 
                        performance established under clause (iii).'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``, 
                including, as appropriate, the Department of 
                Agriculture, the Department of Defense, the Department 
                of Education, the Department of Energy, the Department 
                of Labor, the Food and Drug Administration, the 
                National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the 
                National Institutes of Health, and the National Science 
                Foundation'' after ``manufacturing''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (E)--
                            (i) in clause (ii), by striking ``without 
                        the need for long-term Federal funding'';
                            (ii) in clause (iii), by striking 
                        ``significantly'';
                            (iii) in clause (v), by inserting ``and to 
                        improve the domestic supply chain'' after 
                        ``technologies''; and
                            (iv) in clause (ix), by inserting 
                        ``industrial, research, entrepreneurship, and 
                        other'' after ``leverage the'';
            (4) in paragraph (5)--
                    (A) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(A) Performance deficiency.--
                            ``(i) Notice of deficiency.--If the 
                        Secretary finds that a center for manufacturing 
                        innovation does not meet the standards for 
                        performance established under clause (iii) of 
                        paragraph (4)(C) during an assessment pursuant 
                        to clause (iv) of such paragraph, the Secretary 
                        shall notify the center of any deficiencies in 
                        the performance of the center and provide the 
                        center one year to remedy such deficiencies.
                            ``(ii) Failure to remedy.--If a center for 
                        manufacturing innovation fails to remedy a 
                        deficiency identified under clause (i) or to 
                        show significant improvement in performance one 
                        year after notification of a performance 
                        deficiency identified under clause (i), the 
                        Secretary shall notify the center that the 
                        center is ineligible for further financial 
                        assistance awarded under paragraph (1) .'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), in the first sentence, by 
                striking ``large capital facilities or equipment 
                purchases'' and inserting ``satellite centers, large 
                capital facilities, equipment purchases, workforce 
                development, or general operations''; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (C); and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) Use of financial assistance.--Financial assistance 
        awarded under paragraph (1)(B) may be used to carry out 
        Program-wide activities directed by the Secretary, such as 
        activities targeting workforce development.''.
    (d) Funding.--Subsection (e)(2) of such section is amended--
            (1) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
                    ``(A) NIST industrial technical services account.--
                To the extent provided for in advance by appropriations 
                Acts, the Secretary may use amounts appropriated to the 
                Institute for Industrial Technical Services account to 
                carry out this section as follows:
                            ``(i) For each of the fiscal years 2015 
                        through 2019, an amount not to exceed 
                        $5,000,000.
                            ``(ii) For each of fiscal years 2020 
                        through 2030, such amounts as may be necessary 
                        to carry out this section.''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``through 2024'' and 
        inserting ``through 2019''.
    (e) National Program Office.--Subsection (f) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by inserting ``coordinate with and, as 
                        appropriate,'' before ``enter''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``including the 
                        Department of Agriculture, the Department of 
                        Defense, the Department of Education, the 
                        Department of Energy, the Department of Labor, 
                        the Food and Drug Administration, the National 
                        Aeronautics and Space Administration, the 
                        National Institutes of Health, and the National 
                        Science Foundation,'' after ``manufacturing,'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (C) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as 
                subparagraph (J); and
                    (D) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the 
                following:
                    ``(F) to carry out pilot programs in collaboration 
                with the centers for manufacturing innovation such as a 
                laboratory-embedded entrepreneurship program;
                    ``(G) to provide support services and funding as 
                necessary to promote workforce development activities;
                    ``(H) to coordinate with centers for manufacturing 
                innovation to develop best practices for the membership 
                agreements and coordination of similar project 
                solicitations;
                    ``(I) to collaborate with the Department of Labor, 
                the Department of Education, industry, career and 
                technical education schools, local community colleges, 
                universities, and labor organizations to provide input 
                for the development of national certifications for 
                advanced manufacturing workforce skills in the 
                technology areas of the centers for manufacturing 
                innovation; and'';
            (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``State, Tribal, and 
        local governments,'' after ``community colleges,''; and
            (3) in paragraph (5)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Liaisons.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary may 
                        provide financial assistance to a manufacturing 
                        extension center established as part of the 
                        Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership to 
                        support the purposes of the Program by 
                        providing services in one or more of the 
                        following areas:
                                    ``(I) Cybersecurity awareness and 
                                support services for small- and medium-
                                sized manufacturers.
                                    ``(II) Assistance with workforce 
                                development.
                                    ``(III) Technology transfer for 
                                small and medium-sized manufacturers.
                                    ``(IV) Such other areas as the 
                                Secretary determines appropriate to 
                                support the purposes of the Program.
                            ``(ii) Support.--Support under clause (i) 
                        may include the designation of a liaison.''.
    (f) Reporting and Auditing.--Subsection (g) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking ``under 
        subsection (d)(1)'' and inserting ``under subsection 
        (d)(1)(A)'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``December 31, 2024'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2030''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``2 years'' and inserting 
                        ``3 years''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``2-year'' and inserting 
                        ``3-year''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``December 31, 
                2024'' and inserting ``December 31, 2030''.
    (g) Expansion.--Subject to the availability of appropriations, the 
Secretary of Commerce shall increase the number of centers for 
manufacturing innovation that participate in the Network for 
Manufacturing Innovation Program.

SEC. 6009. REGIONAL INNOVATION PROGRAM.

    Section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 
1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 27. REGIONAL INNOVATION PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Eligible recipient defined.--The term `eligible 
        recipient' means--
                    ``(A) a State;
                    ``(B) an Indian tribe;
                    ``(C) a city or other political subdivision of a 
                State;
                    ``(D) an entity that is a nonprofit organization, 
                an institution of higher education, a public-private 
                partnership, a science or research park, a Federal 
                laboratory, a venture development organization, or an 
                economic development organization or similar entity 
                that is focused primarily on improving science, 
                technology, innovation, or entrepreneurship; or
                    ``(E) a consortium of any of the entities described 
                in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
            ``(2) Regional innovation initiative.--The term `regional 
        innovation initiative' means a geographically-bounded public or 
        nonprofit activity or program to address issues in the local 
        innovation systems in order to--
                    ``(A) increase the success of innovation-driven 
                industry;
                    ``(B) strengthen the competitiveness of industry 
                through new product innovation and new technology 
                adoption;
                    ``(C) improve the pace of market readiness and 
                overall commercialization of innovative research;
                    ``(D) enhance the overall innovation capacity and 
                long-term resilience of the region; and
                    ``(E) leverage the region's unique competitive 
                strengths to stimulate innovation and to create jobs.
            ``(3) State.--The term `State' means one of the several 
        States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the 
        Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, 
        Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
        Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United 
        States.
            ``(4) Venture development organization.--The term `venture 
        development organization' means a State or nonprofit 
        organization that contributes to regional or sector-based 
        economic prosperity by providing services for the purposes of--
                    ``(A) accelerating the commercialization of 
                research;
                    ``(B) strengthening the competitive position of 
                industry through the development, commercial adoption, 
                or deployment of technology; and
                    ``(C) providing financial grants, loans, or direct 
                financial investment to commercialize technology.
    ``(b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a regional 
innovation program to encourage and support the development of regional 
innovation strategies designed to increase innovation-driven economic 
opportunity within their respective regions.
    ``(c) Regional Innovation Grants.--
            ``(1) Authorization of grants.--As part of the program 
        established pursuant to subsection (b), the Secretary may award 
        grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible recipients for 
        activities designed to develop and support a regional 
        innovation initiative.
            ``(2) Permissible activities.--A grant awarded under this 
        subsection shall be used for multiple activities determined 
        appropriate by the Secretary, including--
                    ``(A) improving the connectedness and strategic 
                orientation of the region through planning, technical 
                assistance, and communication among participants of a 
                regional innovation initiative;
                    ``(B) attracting additional participants to a 
                regional innovation initiative;
                    ``(C) increasing the availability and investment of 
                private and philanthropic financing that supports 
                innovation-based business ventures;
                    ``(D) completing the research, development and 
                introduction of new products, processes, and services 
                into the commercial market;
                    ``(E) increasing the number of full-time equivalent 
                employment opportunities within innovation-based 
                business ventures in the geographic region; and
                    ``(F) achieving quantifiable, positive benefits to, 
                or measurable enhancements for, the economic 
                performance of the geographic region.
            ``(3) Restricted activities.--Grants awarded under this 
        subsection may not be used to pay for--
                    ``(A) costs related to the recruitment, inducement, 
                or associated financial or tangible incentives that 
                might be offered to relocate an existing business from 
                a geographic area to another geographic area; or
                    ``(B) costs associated with offsetting revenues 
                forgone by one or more taxing authorities through tax 
                incentives, tax increment financing, special 
                improvement districts, tax abatements for private 
                development within designated zones or geographic 
                areas, or other reduction in revenues resulting from 
                tax credits affecting the geographic region of the 
                eligible recipients.
            ``(4) Applications.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An eligible recipient shall 
                submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in 
                such manner, and containing such information and 
                assurances as the Secretary may require.
                    ``(B) Components.--Each application submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall--
                            ``(i) describe the regional innovation 
                        initiative;
                            ``(ii) indicate whether the regional 
                        innovation initiative is supported by the 
                        private sector, State and local governments, 
                        and other relevant stakeholders;
                            ``(iii) identify what activities the 
                        regional innovation initiative will undertake;
                            ``(iv) describe the expected outcomes of 
                        the regional innovation initiative and how the 
                        eligible recipient will measure progress toward 
                        those outcomes;
                            ``(v) indicate whether the participants in 
                        the regional innovation initiative have access 
                        to, or contribute to, a well-trained workforce 
                        and other innovation assets that are critical 
                        to the successful outcomes specified in the 
                        application;
                            ``(vi) indicate whether the participants in 
                        the regional innovation initiative are capable 
                        of attracting additional funds from non-Federal 
                        sources; and
                            ``(vii) if appropriate for the activities 
                        proposed in the application, analyze the 
                        likelihood that the participants in the 
                        regional innovation initiative will be able to 
                        sustain activities after grant funds received 
                        under this subsection have been expended.
                    ``(C) Feedback.--The Secretary shall provide 
                feedback to program applicants that are not awarded 
                grants to help them improve future applications.
                    ``(D) Special considerations.--The Secretary shall 
                give special consideration to--
                            ``(i) applications proposing to include 
                        workforce or training related activities in 
                        their regional innovation initiative from 
                        eligible recipients who agree to collaborate 
                        with local workforce investment area boards; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) applications from regions that 
                        contain communities negatively impacted by 
                        trade.
            ``(5) Cost share.--The Secretary may not provide more than 
        50 percent of the total cost of any activity funded under this 
        subsection.
            ``(6) Outreach to rural communities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct 
                outreach to public and private sector entities in rural 
                communities to encourage those entities to participate 
                in regional innovation initiatives under this 
                subsection.
                    ``(B) Justification.--As part of the program 
                established pursuant to subsection (b), the Secretary, 
                through the Economic Development Administration, shall 
                submit an annual report to Congress that explains the 
                balance in the allocation of grants to eligible 
                recipients under this subsection between rural and 
                urban areas.
            ``(7) Funding.--The Secretary may accept funds from other 
        Federal agencies to support grants and activities under this 
        subsection.
    ``(d) Regional Innovation Research and Information Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--As part of the program established 
        pursuant to subsection (b), the Secretary shall establish a 
        regional innovation research and information program--
                    ``(A) to gather, analyze, and disseminate 
                information on best practices for regional innovation 
                initiatives, including information relating to how 
                innovation, productivity, and economic development can 
                be maximized through such strategies;
                    ``(B) to provide technical assistance, including 
                through the development of technical assistance guides, 
                for the development and implementation of regional 
                innovation initiatives;
                    ``(C) to support the development of relevant 
                metrics and measurement standards to evaluate regional 
                innovation initiatives, including the extent to which 
                such strategies stimulate innovation, productivity, and 
                economic development; and
                    ``(D) to collect and make available data on 
                regional innovation initiatives in the United States, 
                including data on--
                            ``(i) the size, specialization, and 
                        competitiveness of regional innovation 
                        initiatives;
                            ``(ii) the regional domestic product 
                        contribution, total jobs and earnings by key 
                        occupations, establishment size, nature of 
                        specialization, patents, Federal research and 
                        development spending, and other relevant 
                        information for regional innovation 
                        initiatives; and
                            ``(iii) supply chain product and service 
                        flows within and between regional innovation 
                        initiatives.
            ``(2) Research grants.--The Secretary may award research 
        grants on a competitive basis to support and further the goals 
        of the program established under this section.
            ``(3) Dissemination of information.--Data and analysis 
        compiled by the Secretary under the program established in this 
        subsection shall be made available to other Federal agencies, 
        State and local governments, and nonprofit and for-profit 
        entities.
            ``(4) Regional innovation grant program.--The Secretary 
        shall incorporate data and analysis relating to any grant 
        awarded under subsection (c) into the program established under 
        this subsection.
    ``(e) Interagency Coordination.--
            ``(1) In general.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
        Secretary shall ensure that the activities carried out under 
        this section are coordinated with, and do not duplicate the 
        efforts of, other programs at the Department of Commerce or at 
        other Federal agencies.
            ``(2) Collaboration.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall explore and 
                pursue collaboration with other Federal agencies, 
                including through multi-agency funding opportunities, 
                on regional innovation strategies.
                    ``(B) Small businesses.--The Secretary shall ensure 
                that such collaboration with Federal agencies 
                prioritizes the needs and challenges of small 
                businesses.
    ``(f) Evaluation.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after Congress 
        first appropriates funds to carry out this section, the 
        Secretary shall competitively award a contract with an 
        independent entity to conduct an evaluation of programs 
        established under this section.
            ``(2) Requirements.--The evaluation conducted under 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    ``(A) an assessment of whether the program is 
                achieving its goals;
                    ``(B) the program's efficacy in providing awards to 
                geographically diverse entities;
                    ``(C) any recommendations for how the program may 
                be improved; and
                    ``(D) a recommendation as to whether the program 
                should be continued or terminated.
    ``(g) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than 5 years after the 
first grant is awarded under subsection (c), and every 5 years 
thereafter until 5 years after the last grant recipient completes the 
regional innovation initiative for which such grant was awarded, the 
Secretary shall submit a report to Congress that describes the outcome 
of each regional innovation initiative that was completed during the 
previous 5 years.
    ``(h) Funding.--From amounts appropriated by Congress for economic 
development assistance authorized under section 27 of the Stevenson-
Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), the 
Secretary may use up to $50,000,000 in each of the fiscal years 2020 
through 2024 to carry out this section.''.

SEC. 6010. REPORT ON NATIONAL GUARD AND UNITED STATES NORTHERN COMMAND 
              CAPACITY TO MEET HOMELAND DEFENSE AND SECURITY INCIDENTS.

    Not later than September 30, 2020, the Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau shall, in consultation with the Commander of United States 
Northern Command, submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report setting forth the following:
            (1) A clarification of the roles and missions, structure, 
        capabilities, and training of the National Guard and the United 
        States Northern Command, and an identification of emerging gaps 
        and shortfalls in light of current homeland security threats to 
        our country.
            (2) A list of the resources that each State and Territory 
        National Guard has at its disposal that are available to 
        respond to a homeland defense or security incident, with 
        particular focus on a multi-State electromagnetic pulse event.
            (3) The readiness and resourcing status of forces listed 
        pursuant to paragraph (2).
            (4) The current strengths and areas of improvement in 
        working with State and Federal interagency partners.
            (5) The current assessments that address National Guard 
        readiness and resourcing of regular United States Northern 
        Command forces postured to respond to homeland defense and 
        security incidents.
            (6) A roadmap to 2040 that addresses readiness across the 
        spectrum of long-range emerging threats facing the United 
        States.

SEC. 6011. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON THE 
              EFFECTS OF CONTINUING RESOLUTIONS ON READINESS AND 
              PLANNING OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting 
forth a description and assessment of the effects of continuing 
resolutions on readiness and planning of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall address 
the following:
            (1) The extent to which the acquisition of goods and 
        services, the support of operational systems, and the 
        stewardship of installations and facilities by the Department 
        of Defense are impacted by continuing resolutions, including 
        the following:
                    (A) The extent to which continuing resolutions 
                negatively impact contract fidelity, including 
                Department purchasing power, and Department leverage in 
                non-pecuniary contract terms such as contract type and 
                delivery date.
                    (B) The extent to which the Department pays more, 
                all other things being equal, because of frequent 
                continuing resolutions.
                    (C) An estimate of the total decrease in Department 
                purchasing power as a result of continuing resolutions.
                    (D) The extent to which continuing resolutions 
                negatively impact Department maintenance work.
            (2) The effects of preparations for and operations of 
        Department personnel under continuing resolutions, including 
        the following:
                    (A) The time spent by Senior Executive Service 
                personnel and general and flag officers in preparations 
                for and responses to the enactment of continuing 
                resolutions, set forth by average per year and average 
                per continuing resolution.
                    (B) The time spent by other Department personnel in 
                preparations for and implementation of continuing 
                resolutions.
                    (C) The extent to which Department personnel take 
                more time to focus on budget execution under a 
                continuing resolution when compared with a full year 
                appropriation.
                    (D) The extent to which continuing resolutions 
                negatively impact the ability of managers at the 
                Department to hire.
            (3) The funding issues of the Department associated with 
        continuing resolutions, including the extent to which the 
        Department has requested so-called ``anomalies'' or exceptions 
        to limitations on duration, amount, or purposes of funds that 
        otherwise apply to interim funding under continuing 
        resolutions, including the following (beginning with fiscal 
        year 2010):
                    (A) The number and absolute value of programs 
                affected by continuing resolutions restrictions on new 
                starts.
                    (B) The number and absolute value of programs 
                affected by continuing resolutions restrictions on 
                production increases.
                    (C) The number and absolute value of such 
                exceptions requested by the Department.
                    (D) The percentage of such exceptions, in both 
                numbers and dollar amount, included in continuing 
                resolutions.
                    (E) The total cumulative delay due to continuing 
                resolutions in programs funded through procurement or 
                research, development, test, and evaluation.
                    (F) The amount by which the budget of the 
                Department has been misaligned either between or within 
                accounts due to continuing resolutions, set forth by 
                budget category 050 and amount, together with 
                adjustments for length of the continuing resolution 
                concerned.
    (c) Continuing Resolution Defined.--In this section, the term 
``continuing resolution'' means a continuing resolution or similar 
partial-year appropriation providing funds for the Department of 
Defense pending enactment of a full-year appropriation for the 
Department.

SEC. 6012. INTEGRATED PUBLIC ALERT AND WARNING SYSTEM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of 
        the Agency;
            (2) the term ``Agency'' means the Federal Emergency 
        Management Agency;
            (3) the term ``public alert and warning system'' means the 
        integrated public alert and warning system of the United States 
        described in section 526 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
        (6 U.S.C. 321o);
            (4) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security; and
            (5) the term ``State'' means any State of the United 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any 
        possession of the United States.
    (b) Integrated Public Alert and Warning System.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall develop minimum 
        requirements for State, Tribal, and local governments to 
        participate in the public alert and warning system and that are 
        necessary to maintain the integrity of the public alert and 
        warning system, including--
                    (A) guidance on the categories of public 
                emergencies and appropriate circumstances that warrant 
                an alert and warning from State, Tribal, and local 
                governments using the public alert and warning system;
                    (B) the procedures for State, Tribal, and local 
                government officials to authenticate civil emergencies 
                and initiate, modify, and cancel alerts transmitted 
                through the public alert and warning system, including 
                protocols and technology capabilities for--
                            (i) the initiation, or prohibition on the 
                        initiation, of alerts by a single authorized or 
                        unauthorized individual;
                            (ii) testing a State, Tribal, or local 
                        government incident management and warning tool 
                        without accidentally initiating an alert 
                        through the public alert and warning system; 
                        and
                            (iii) steps a State, Tribal, or local 
                        government official should take to mitigate the 
                        possibility of the issuance of a false alert 
                        through the public alert and warning system;
                    (C) the standardization, functionality, and 
                interoperability of incident management and warning 
                tools used by State, Tribal, and local governments to 
                notify the public of an emergency through the public 
                alert and warning system;
                    (D) the annual training and recertification of 
                emergency management personnel on requirements for 
                originating and transmitting an alert through the 
                public alert and warning system;
                    (E) the procedures, protocols, and guidance 
                concerning the protective action plans that State, 
                Tribal, and local governments shall issue to the public 
                following an alert issued under the public alert and 
                warning system;
                    (F) the procedures, protocols, and guidance 
                concerning the communications that State, Tribal, and 
                local governments shall issue to the public following a 
                false alert issued under the public alert and warning 
                system;
                    (G) a plan by which State, Tribal, and local 
                government officials may, during an emergency, contact 
                each other as well as Federal officials and 
                participants in the Emergency Alert System and the 
                Wireless Emergency Alert System, when appropriate and 
                necessary, by telephone, text message, or other means 
                of communication regarding an alert that has been 
                distributed to the public; and
                    (H) any other procedure the Administrator considers 
                appropriate for maintaining the integrity of and 
                providing for public confidence in the public alert and 
                warning system.
            (2) Coordination with national advisory council report.--
        The Administrator shall ensure that the minimum requirements 
        developed under paragraph (1) do not conflict with 
        recommendations made for improving the public alert and warning 
        system provided in the report submitted by the National 
        Advisory Council under section 2(b)(7)(B) of the Integrated 
        Public Alert and Warning System Modernization Act of 2015 
        (Public Law 114-143; 130 Stat. 332).
            (3) Public consultation.--In developing the minimum 
        requirements under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall 
        ensure appropriate public consultation and, to the extent 
        practicable, coordinate the development of the requirements 
        with stakeholders of the public alert and warning system, 
        including--
                    (A) appropriate personnel from Federal agencies, 
                including the National Institute of Standards and 
                Technology, the Agency, and the Federal Communications 
                Commission;
                    (B) representatives of State and local governments 
                and emergency services personnel, who shall be selected 
                from among individuals nominated by national 
                organizations representing those governments and 
                personnel;
                    (C) representatives of Federally recognized Indian 
                tribes and national Indian organizations;
                    (D) communications service providers;
                    (E) vendors, developers, and manufacturers of 
                systems, facilities, equipment, and capabilities for 
                the provision of communications services;
                    (F) third-party service bureaus;
                    (G) the national organization representing the 
                licensees and permittees of noncommercial broadcast 
                television stations;
                    (H) technical experts from the broadcasting 
                industry;
                    (I) educators from the Emergency Management 
                Institute; and
                    (J) other individuals with technical expertise as 
                the Administrator determines appropriate.
            (4) Inapplicability of faca.--The Federal Advisory 
        Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the public 
        consultation with stakeholders under paragraph (3).
    (c) Incident Management and Warning Tool Validation.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish a 
        process to ensure that an incident management and warning tool 
        used by a State, Tribal, or local government to originate and 
        transmit an alert through the public alert and warning system 
        meets the requirements developed by the Administrator under 
        subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Requirements.--The process required to be established 
        under paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) the ability to test an incident management and 
                warning tool in the public alert and warning system 
                lab;
                    (B) the ability to certify that an incident 
                management and warning tool complies with the 
                applicable cyber frameworks of the Department of 
                Homeland Security and the National Institute of 
                Standards and Technology;
                    (C) a process to certify developers of emergency 
                management software; and
                    (D) requiring developers to provide the 
                Administrator with a copy of and rights of use for 
                ongoing testing of each version of incident management 
                and warning tool software before the software is first 
                used by a State, Tribal, or local government.
    (d) Review and Update of Memoranda of Understanding.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall review the 
        memoranda of understanding between the Agency and State, 
        Tribal, and local governments with respect to the public alert 
        and warning system to ensure that all agreements ensure 
        compliance with the requirements developed by the Administrator 
        under subsection (b)(1).
    (e) Future Memoranda.--The Administrator shall ensure that any new 
memorandum of understanding entered into between the Agency and a 
State, Tribal, or local government on or after the date of enactment of 
this Act with respect to the public alert and warning system ensures 
that the agreement requires compliance with the requirements developed 
by the Administrator under subsection (b)(1).
    (f) Missile Alert and Warning Authorities.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Authority.--On and after the date that is 120 
                days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                authority to originate an alert warning the public of a 
                missile launch directed against a State using the 
                public alert and warning system shall reside primarily 
                with the Federal Government.
                    (B) Delegation of authority.--The Secretary may 
                delegate the authority described in subparagraph (A) to 
                a State, Tribal, or local entity if, not later than 180 
                days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                Secretary submits a report to the Committee on Homeland 
                Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
                Representatives that--
                            (i) it is not feasible for the Federal 
                        Government to alert the public of a missile 
                        threat against a State; or
                            (ii) it is not in the national security 
                        interest of the United States for the Federal 
                        Government to alert the public of a missile 
                        threat against a State.
                    (C) Activation of system.--Upon verification of a 
                missile threat, the President, utilizing established 
                authorities, protocols and procedures, may activate the 
                public alert and warning system.
                    (D) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this 
                paragraph shall be construed to change the command and 
                control relationship between entities of the Federal 
                Government with respect to the identification, 
                dissemination, notification, or alerting of information 
                of missile threats against the United States that was 
                in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
                this Act.
            (2) Required processes.--The Secretary, acting through the 
        Administrator, shall establish a process to promptly notify a 
        State warning point, and any State entities that the 
        Administrator determines appropriate, following the issuance of 
        an alert described in paragraph (1)(A) so the State may take 
        appropriate action to protect the health, safety, and welfare 
        of the residents of the State.
            (3) Guidance.--The Secretary, acting through the 
        Administrator, shall work with the Governor of a State warning 
        point to develop and implement appropriate protective action 
        plans to respond to an alert described in paragraph (1)(A) for 
        that State.
            (4) Study and report.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) examine the feasibility of establishing an 
                alert designation under the public alert and warning 
                system that would be used to alert and warn the public 
                of a missile threat while concurrently alerting a State 
                warning point so that a State may activate related 
                protective action plans; and
                    (B) submit a report of the findings under 
                subparagraph (A), including of the costs and timeline 
                for taking action to implement an alert designation 
                described in subparagraph (A), to--
                            (i) the Subcommittee on Homeland Security 
                        of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
                        Senate;
                            (ii) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                        Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                            (iii) the Subcommittee on Homeland Security 
                        of the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
                        of Representatives; and
                            (iv) the Committee on Homeland Security of 
                        the House of Representatives.
    (g) Use of Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Lab.--Not 
later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator shall--
            (1) develop a program to increase the utilization of the 
        public alert and warning system lab of the Agency by State, 
        Tribal, and local governments to test incident management and 
        warning tools and train emergency management professionals on 
        alert origination protocols and procedures; and
            (2) submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a report 
        describing--
                    (A) the impact on utilization of the public alert 
                and warning system lab by State, Tribal, and local 
                governments resulting from the program developed under 
                paragraph (1); and
                    (B) any further recommendations that the 
                Administrator would make for additional statutory or 
                appropriations authority necessary to increase the 
                utilization of the public alert and warning system lab 
                by State, Tribal, and local governments.
    (h) Awareness of Alerts and Warnings.--Not later than 1 year after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall--
            (1) conduct a review of the National Watch Center and each 
        Regional Watch Center of the Agency; and
            (2) submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a report on 
        the review conducted under paragraph (1), which shall include--
                    (A) an assessment of the technical capability of 
                the National and Regional Watch Centers described in 
                paragraph (1) to be notified of alerts and warnings 
                issued by a State through the public alert and warning 
                system;
                    (B) a determination of which State alerts and 
                warnings the National and Regional Watch Centers 
                described in paragraph (1) should be aware of; and
                    (C) recommendations for improving the ability of 
                the National and Regional Watch Centers described in 
                paragraph (1) to receive any State alerts and warnings 
                that the Administrator determines are appropriate.
    (i) Timeline for Compliance.--Each State shall be given a 
reasonable amount of time to comply with any new rules, regulations, or 
requirements imposed under this section.

SEC. 6013. REPORT ON IMPACT OF LIBERIAN NATIONALS ON THE NATIONAL 
              SECURITY, FOREIGN POLICY, AND ECONOMIC AND HUMANITARIAN 
              INTERESTS OF THE UNITED STATES AND A JUSTIFICATION FOR 
              ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS OF QUALIFYING LIBERIANS TO THAT OF 
              LAWFUL PERMANENT RESIDENTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In 1989, a seven-year civil war broke out in Liberia 
        that--
                    (A) claimed the lives of an estimated 200,000 
                people;
                    (B) displaced over \1/2\ of the Liberian 
                population;
                    (C) halted food production; and
                    (D) destroyed the infrastructure and economy of 
                Liberia.
            (2) A second civil war then followed from 1999 to 2003, 
        further destabilizing Liberia and creating more turmoil and 
        hardship for Liberians.
            (3) In total, the two civil wars in Liberia killed up to an 
        estimated \1/4\ million individuals.
            (4) From 2014 to 2016, Liberia faced an Ebola virus 
        outbreak that devastated the fragile health system of Liberia 
        and killed nearly 5,000 individuals.
            (5) As a result of these devastating events, thousands of 
        Liberians sought refuge in the United States, living and 
        working here under Temporary Protected Status (TPS) and 
        Deferred Enforced Departure (DED), extended under both 
        Republican and Democratic administrations beginning in 1991 
        with the administration of President George H. W. Bush.
            (6) These law-abiding and taxpaying Liberians have made 
        homes in the United States, have worked hard, played by the 
        rules, paid their dues, and submitted to rigorous vetting. Many 
        such Liberians have United States citizen children who have 
        served in the Armed Forces, and in some cases have themselves 
        served in that capacity.
            (7) The Liberian community in the United States has also 
        contributed greatly to private sector investment and 
        socioeconomic assistance in Liberia by providing remittances to 
        relatives in Liberia.
            (8) While there was a positive development in 2017 with the 
        first democratic transfer of power in more than 70 years, the 
        Department of State has identified the capital and most 
        populous city of Liberia, Monrovia, as being a critical-threat 
        location for crime. Access to healthcare remains limited, 
        critical infrastructure is lacking, and widespread corruption 
        coupled with low wages and a weak economic recovery has left 
        the country vulnerable to civil unrest.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2019, the 
        Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of 
        State, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
        report on the impact of Liberian nationals on the national 
        security, foreign policy, and economic, and humanitarian 
        interests of the United States and a justification for 
        adjustment of status of qualifying Liberians to that of lawful 
        permanent residents.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The number of current or former Liberian 
                nationals and their children who have served or are 
                currently serving in the Armed Forces.
                    (B) The amount of remittances sent by current or 
                former Liberian nationals to relatives in Liberia and 
                an assessment of the impact on the economic development 
                of Liberia if these remittances were to cease.
                    (C) The economic and tax contributions that 
                Liberian nationals and their children have made to the 
                United States.
                    (D) An assessment of the impact on the United 
                States of adjusting the status of Liberian nationals 
                who have continuous physical presence in the United 
                States beginning on November 20, 2014, and ending on 
                the date of the enactment of this Act, or for adjusting 
                the status of the spouses, children, and unmarried sons 
                or daughters of such Liberian nationals.
    (c) Qualifying Liberian.--
            (1) In general.--In this section, the term ``qualifying 
        Liberian'' means and alien (as defined in section 101(a) of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)) who--
                    (A)(i) is a national of Liberia; and
                    (ii) has been continuously present in the United 
                States during the period beginning on November 20, 
                2014, and ending on the date of the enactment of this 
                Act;
                    (B) is the spouse, child, or unmarried son or 
                daughter of an alien described in subparagraph (A);
                    (C) is otherwise eligible to receive an immigrant 
                visa; and
                    (D) is admissible to the United States for 
                permanent residence, except that the grounds of 
                inadmissibility specified in paragraphs (4), (5), 
                (6)(A), and (7)(A) of section 212(a) of the Immigration 
                and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)) shall not apply.
            (2) Exceptions.--The term ``qualifying Liberian'' does not 
        include any alien who--
                    (A) has been convicted of any aggravated felony;
                    (B) has been convicted of 2 or more crimes 
                involving moral turpitude (other than a purely 
                political offense); or
                    (C) has ordered, incited, assisted, or otherwise 
                participated in the persecution of any person on 
                account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a 
                particular social group, or political opinion.
            (3) Determination of continuous physical presence.--For 
        purposes of establishing the period of continuous physical 
        presence referred to in paragraph (1)(A)(ii), an alien shall 
        not be considered to have failed to maintain continuous 
        physical presence based on 1 or more absences from the United 
        States for 1 or more periods amounting, in the aggregate, to 
        not more than 180 days.

SEC. 6014. IMPROVING QUALITY OF INFORMATION IN BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION 
              REQUEST PACKAGES.

    (a) Report on Metrics and Best Practices.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency, which serves as the 
primary executive branch service provider for background investigations 
for eligibility for access to classified information, eligibility to 
hold a sensitive position, and for suitability and fitness for other 
matters pursuant to Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; 
relating to reforming processes related to suitability for Government 
employment, fitness for contractor employees, and eligibility for 
access to classified national security information), shall, in 
consultation with the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing 
Performance Accountability Council established under such executive 
order, submit to Congress a report on--
            (1) metrics for assessing the completeness and quality of 
        packages for background investigations submitted by agencies 
        requesting background investigations from the Defense 
        Counterintelligence and Security Agency;
            (2) rejection rates of background investigation submission 
        packages due to incomplete or erroneous data, by agency; and
            (3) best practices for ensuring full and complete 
        information in background investigation requests.
    (b) Annual Report on Performance.--Not later than 270 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once 
each year thereafter, the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing 
Performance Accountability Council shall submit to Congress a report on 
performance against the metrics and return rates identified in 
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
    (c) Improvement Plans.--
            (1) Identification.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, executive agents under Executive 
        Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note) shall identify agencies in 
        need of improvement with respect to the quality of the 
        information in the background investigation submissions of the 
        agencies as reported in subsection (b).
            (2) Plans.--Not later than 90 days after an agency is 
        identified under paragraph (1), the head of the agency shall 
        provide the executive agents referred to in such paragraph with 
        a plan to improve the performance of the agency with respect to 
        the quality of the information in the agency's background 
        investigation submissions.

SEC. 6015. LIMITATION ON CERTAIN ROLLING STOCK PROCUREMENTS; 
              CYBERSECURITY CERTIFICATION FOR RAIL ROLLING STOCK AND 
              OPERATIONS.

    Section 5323 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(u) Limitation on Certain Rolling Stock Procurements.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (5), 
        financial assistance made available under this chapter shall 
        not be used in awarding a contract or subcontract to an entity 
        on or after the date of enactment of this subsection for the 
        procurement of rolling stock for use in public transportation 
        if the manufacturer of the rolling stock--
                    ``(A) is incorporated in or has manufacturing 
                facilities in the United States; and
                    ``(B) is owned or controlled by, is a subsidiary 
                of, or is otherwise related legally or financially to a 
                corporation based in a country that--
                            ``(i) is identified as a nonmarket economy 
                        country (as defined in section 771(18) of the 
                        Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1677(18))) as of 
                        the date of enactment of this subsection;
                            ``(ii) was identified by the United States 
                        Trade Representative in the most recent report 
                        required by section 182 of the Trade Act of 
                        1974 (19 U.S.C. 2242) as a priority foreign 
                        country under subsection (a)(2) of that 
                        section; and
                            ``(iii) is subject to monitoring by the 
                        Trade Representative under section 306 of the 
                        Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2416).
            ``(2) Exception.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the term 
        `otherwise related legally or financially' does not include a 
        minority relationship or investment.
            ``(3) International agreements.--This subsection shall be 
        applied in a manner consistent with the obligations of the 
        United States under international agreements.
            ``(4) Certification for rail rolling stock.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph 
                (5), as a condition of financial assistance made 
                available in a fiscal year under section 5337, a 
                recipient that operates rail fixed guideway service 
                shall certify in that fiscal year that the recipient 
                will not award any contract or subcontract for the 
                procurement of rail rolling stock for use in public 
                transportation with a rail rolling stock manufacturer 
                described in paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Separate certification.--The certification 
                required under this paragraph shall be in addition to 
                any certification the Secretary establishes to ensure 
                compliance with the requirements of paragraph (1).
            ``(5) Exception.--This subsection, including the 
        certification requirement under paragraph (4), shall not apply 
        to the award of a contract or subcontract made by a public 
        transportation agency with a rail rolling stock manufacturer 
        described in paragraph (1) if the manufacturer and the public 
        transportation agency have a contract for rail rolling stock 
        that was executed before the date of enactment of this 
        subsection.
    ``(v) Cybersecurity Certification for Rail Rolling Stock and 
Operations.--
            ``(1) Certification.--As a condition of financial 
        assistance made available under this chapter, a recipient that 
        operates a rail fixed guideway public transportation system 
        shall certify that the recipient has established a process to 
        develop, maintain, and execute a written plan for identifying 
        and reducing cybersecurity risks.
            ``(2) Compliance.--For the process required under paragraph 
        (1), a recipient of assistance under this chapter shall--
                    ``(A) utilize the approach described by the 
                voluntary standards and best practices developed under 
                section 2(c)(15) of the National Institute of Standards 
                and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 272(c)(15)), as 
                applicable;
                    ``(B) identify hardware and software that the 
                recipient determines should undergo third-party testing 
                and analysis to mitigate cybersecurity risks, such as 
                hardware or software for rail rolling stock under 
                proposed procurements; and
                    ``(C) utilize the approach described in any 
                voluntary standards and best practices for rail fixed 
                guideway public transportation systems developed under 
                the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security, as 
                applicable.
            ``(3) Limitations on statutory construction.--Nothing in 
        this subsection shall be construed to interfere with the 
        authority of--
                    ``(A) the Secretary of Homeland Security to publish 
                or ensure compliance with requirements or standards 
                concerning cybersecurity for rail fixed guideway public 
                transportation systems; or
                    ``(B) the Secretary of Transportation under section 
                5329 to address cybersecurity issues as those issues 
                relate to the safety of rail fixed guideway public 
                transportation systems.''.

SEC. 6016. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE NAMING OF A NAVAL VESSEL IN HONOR 
              OF SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER SHANNON KENT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Senior Chief Petty Officer Shannon M. Kent was born in 
        Owego, New York.
            (2) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent enlisted in the United 
        States Navy on December 10, 2003.
            (3) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent was fluent in four 
        languages and four dialects of Arabic.
            (4) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent served five combat 
        tours throughout 15 years of service in the Navy.
            (5) On January 16, 2019, at 35 years of age, Senior Chief 
        Petty Officer Kent was killed in a suicide bombing in Manbij, 
        Syria, while supporting Joint Task Force-Operation Inherent 
        Resolve.
            (6) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent was the recipient of 
        the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, two Joint Service 
        Commendation Medals, the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation 
        Medal, the Army Commendation Medal, and the Joint Service 
        Achievement Medal, among other decorations and awards.
            (7) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent was among the first 
        women to deploy with Special Operations Forces and was the 
        first female to graduate from the hard skills program for non-
        SEALs.
            (8) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent is survived by her 
        husband and two children.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of the Navy should name the next available naval vessel 
appropriate for such name in honor of Senior Chief Petty Officer 
Shannon Kent.

SEC. 6017. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT 
              OF 1950.

    Section 711 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4561) 
is amended by striking ``$133,000,000'' and all that follows and 
inserting the following: ``for the carrying out of the provisions and 
purposes of this Act by the President and such agencies as he may 
designate or create--
            ``(1) $250,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 
        2024; and
            ``(2) $133,000,000 for fiscal year 2025 and each fiscal 
        year thereafter.''.

SEC. 6018. INVESTMENT IN SUPPLY CHAIN SECURITY UNDER DEFENSE PRODUCTION 
              ACT OF 1950.

    (a) In General.--Section 303 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 
(50 U.S.C. 4533) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Investment in Supply Chain Security.--
            ``(1) In general.--The President may make available to an 
        eligible entity described in paragraph (2) payments to increase 
        the security of supply chains and supply chain activities, if 
        the President certifies to Congress not less than 30 days 
        before making such a payment that the payment is in the 
        national security interests of the United States.
            ``(2) Eligible entity.--An eligible entity described in 
        this paragraph is an entity that--
                    ``(A) is organized under the laws of the United 
                States or any jurisdiction within the United States; 
                and
                    ``(B) produces--
                            ``(i) one or more critical components;
                            ``(ii) critical technology; or
                            ``(iii) one or more products for the 
                        increased security of supply chains or supply 
                        chain activities.
            ``(3) Definitions.--In this subsection, the terms `supply 
        chain' and `supply chain activities' have the meanings given 
        those terms by the President by regulation under section 
        6019(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2020.''.
    (b) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the President shall prescribe 
        regulations setting forth definitions for the terms ``supply 
        chain'' and ``supply chain activities'' for the purposes of 
        section 303(h) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
        4533(h)), as added by subsection (a).
            (2) Scope of definitions.--The definitions required by 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) shall encompass--
                            (i) the organization, people, activities, 
                        information, and resources involved in the 
                        delivery and operation of a product or service 
                        used by the Government; or
                            (ii) critical infrastructure as defined in 
                        Presidential Policy Directive 21 (February 12, 
                        2013; relating to critical infrastructure 
                        security and resilience); and
                    (B) may include variations for specific sectors or 
                Government functions.

SEC. 6019. AVIATION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 625(c)(1) of the FAA Reauthorization Act 
of 2018 (Public Law 115-254) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``or'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) an organization representing aircraft users, 
                aircraft owners, or aircraft pilots.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect as if included in the enactment of the FAA Reauthorization 
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-254).

SEC. 6020. LITTLE SHELL TRIBE OF CHIPPEWA INDIANS OF MONTANA.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians is a 
        political successor to signatories of the Pembina Treaty of 
        1863, under which a large area of land in the State of North 
        Dakota was ceded to the United States;
            (2) the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa of North Dakota 
        and the Chippewa-Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy's Reservation of 
        Montana, which also are political successors to the signatories 
        of the Pembina Treaty of 1863, have been recognized by the 
        Federal Government as distinct Indian tribes;
            (3) the members of the Little Shell Tribe continue to live 
        in the State of Montana, as their ancestors have for more than 
        100 years since ceding land in the State of North Dakota as 
        described in paragraph (1);
            (4) in the 1930s and 1940s, the Tribe repeatedly petitioned 
        the Federal Government for reorganization under the Act of June 
        18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) (commonly known as the 
        ``Indian Reorganization Act'');
            (5) Federal agents who visited the Tribe and Commissioner 
        of Indian Affairs John Collier attested to the responsibility 
        of the Federal Government for the Tribe and members of the 
        Tribe, concluding that members of the Tribe are eligible for, 
        and should be provided with, trust land, making the Tribe 
        eligible for reorganization under the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 
        U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) (commonly known as the ``Indian 
        Reorganization Act'');
            (6) due to a lack of Federal appropriations during the 
        Depression, the Bureau of Indian Affairs lacked adequate 
        financial resources to purchase land for the Tribe, and the 
        members of the Tribe were denied the opportunity to reorganize;
            (7) in spite of the failure of the Federal Government to 
        appropriate adequate funding to secure land for the Tribe as 
        required for reorganization under the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 
        U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) (commonly known as the ``Indian 
        Reorganization Act''), the Tribe continued to exist as a 
        separate community, with leaders exhibiting clear political 
        authority;
            (8) the Tribe, together with the Turtle Mountain Band of 
        Chippewa of North Dakota and the Chippewa-Cree Tribe of the 
        Rocky Boy's Reservation of Montana, filed 2 law suits under the 
        Act of August 13, 1946 (60 Stat. 1049) (commonly known as the 
        ``Indian Claims Commission Act''), to petition for additional 
        compensation for land ceded to the United States under the 
        Pembina Treaty of 1863 and the McCumber Agreement of 1892;
            (9) in 1971 and 1982, pursuant to Acts of Congress, the 
        tribes received awards for the claims described in paragraph 
        (8);
            (10) in 1978, the Tribe submitted to the Bureau of Indian 
        Affairs a petition for Federal recognition, which is still 
        pending as of the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (11) the Federal Government, the State of Montana, and the 
        other federally recognized Indian tribes of the State have had 
        continuous dealings with the recognized political leaders of 
        the Tribe since the 1930s.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Member.--The term ``member'' means an individual who is 
        enrolled in the Tribe pursuant to subsection (f).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Little Shell Tribe 
        of Chippewa Indians of Montana.
    (c) Federal Recognition.--
            (1) In general.--Federal recognition is extended to the 
        Tribe.
            (2) Effect of federal laws.--Except as otherwise provided 
        in this section, all Federal laws (including regulations) of 
        general application to Indians and Indian tribes, including the 
        Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) (commonly known 
        as the ``Indian Reorganization Act''), shall apply to the Tribe 
        and members.
    (d) Federal Services and Benefits.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning on the date of enactment of this 
        Act, the Tribe and each member shall be eligible for all 
        services and benefits provided by the United States to Indians 
        and federally recognized Indian tribes, without regard to--
                    (A) the existence of a reservation for the Tribe; 
                or
                    (B) the location of the residence of any member on 
                or near an Indian reservation.
            (2) Service area.--For purposes of the delivery of services 
        and benefits to members, the service area of the Tribe shall be 
        considered to be the area comprised of Blaine, Cascade, 
        Glacier, and Hill Counties in the State of Montana.
    (e) Reaffirmation of Rights.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section diminishes any 
        right or privilege of the Tribe or any member that existed 
        before the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Claims of tribe.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, nothing in this section alters or affects any legal or 
        equitable claim of the Tribe to enforce any right or privilege 
        reserved by, or granted to, the Tribe that was wrongfully 
        denied to, or taken from, the Tribe before the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
    (f) Membership Roll.--
            (1) In general.--As a condition of receiving recognition, 
        services, and benefits pursuant to this section, the Tribe 
        shall submit to the Secretary, by not later than 18 months 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, a membership roll 
        consisting of the name of each individual enrolled as a member 
        of the Tribe.
            (2) Determination of membership.--The qualifications for 
        inclusion on the membership roll of the Tribe shall be 
        determined in accordance with sections 1 through 3 of article 5 
        of the constitution of the Tribe dated September 10, 1977 
        (including amendments to the constitution).
            (3) Maintenance of roll.--The Tribe shall maintain the 
        membership roll under this subsection.
    (g) Acquisition of Land.--
            (1) Homeland.--The Secretary shall acquire, for the benefit 
        of the Tribe, trust title to 200 acres of land within the 
        service area of the Tribe to be used for a tribal land base.
            (2) Additional land.--The Secretary may acquire additional 
        land for the benefit of the Tribe pursuant to section 5 of the 
        Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5108) (commonly known as the 
        ``Indian Reorganization Act'').

SEC. 6021. PENSACOLA DAM AND RESERVOIR, GRAND RIVER, OKLAHOMA.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to clarify Federal 
authorities and responsibilities relating to the Pensacola Dam and 
Reservoir.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
        Energy Regulatory Commission.
            (2) Conservation pool.--The term ``conservation pool'' 
        means all land and water of Grand Lake O' the Cherokees, 
        Oklahoma, below elevation 745 feet (Pensacola Datum).
            (3) Flood pool.--The term ``flood pool'' means all land and 
        water of Grand Lake O' the Cherokees, Oklahoma, between 
        elevation 745 feet and elevation 755 feet (Pensacola Datum).
            (4) Project.--The term ``project'' means the Pensacola 
        Hydroelectric Project (FERC No. 1494).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Army.
    (c) Conservation Pool Management.--
            (1) Federal land.--Notwithstanding section 3(2) of the 
        Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(2)), Federal land within the 
        project boundary, including any right, title, or interest in or 
        to land held by the United States for any purpose, shall not be 
        considered to be--
                    (A) a reservation for purposes of section 4(e) of 
                that Act (16 U.S.C. 797(e));
                    (B) land or other property of the United States for 
                purposes of recompensing the United States for the use, 
                occupancy, or enjoyment of the land under section 
                10(e)(1) of that Act (16 U.S.C. 803(e)(1)); or
                    (C) land of the United States for purposes of 
                section 24 of that Act (16 U.S.C. 818).
            (2) License conditions.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, the Commission shall not include in 
                any license for the project any condition or other 
                requirement relating to--
                            (i) surface elevations of the conservation 
                        pool; or
                            (ii) the flood pool (except to the extent 
                        it references flood control requirements 
                        prescribed by the Secretary); or
                            (iii) land or water above an elevation of 
                        750 feet (Pensacola Datum)
                    (B) Exception.--Notwithstanding subparagraph 
                (A)(i), the Commission shall, in consultation with the 
                licensee, prescribe flexible target surface elevations 
                of the conservation pool to the extent necessary for 
                the protection of life, health, property, or the 
                environment.
            (3) Project scope.--
                    (A) Licensing jurisdiction.--The licensing 
                jurisdiction of the Commission for the project shall 
                not extend to any land or water outside the project 
                boundary.
                    (B) Outside infrastructure.--Any land, water, or 
                physical infrastructure or other improvement outside 
                the project boundary shall not be considered to be part 
                of the project.
                    (C) Boundary amendment.--
                            (i) In general.--The Commission shall amend 
                        the project boundary only on request of the 
                        project licensee.
                            (ii) Denial of request.--The Commission may 
                        deny a request to amend a project boundary 
                        under clause (i) if the Commission determines 
                        that the request is inconsistent with the 
                        requirements of part I of the Federal Power Act 
                        (16 U.S.C. 792 et seq.).
    (d) Flood Pool Management.--
            (1) Exclusive jurisdiction.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the Secretary shall have exclusive 
        jurisdiction and responsibility for management of the flood 
        pool for flood control operations at Grand Lake O' the 
        Cherokees.
            (2) Property acquisition.--If a feasibility study or other 
        investigation determines that flood control operations at or 
        associated with Pensacola Dam, including any backwater effect, 
        may result in the inundation of, or damage to, land outside the 
        project boundary to which the United States does not hold 
        flowage rights or holds insufficient flowage rights, the 
        project licensee shall not have any obligation to obtain or 
        enhance those flowage rights.
    (e) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this section affects, with 
respect to the project--
            (1) any authority or obligation of the Secretary or the 
        Chief of Engineers pursuant to section 2 of the Act of June 28, 
        1938 (commonly known as the ``Flood Control Act of 1938'') (33 
        U.S.C. 701c-1);
            (2) any authority of the Secretary or the Chief of 
        Engineers pursuant to section 7 of the Act of December 22, 1944 
        (commonly known as the ``Flood Control Act of 1944'') (33 
        U.S.C. 709);
            (3) any obligation of the United States to obtain flowage 
        or other property rights pursuant to the Act of July 31, 1946 
        (60 Stat. 743, chapter 710);
            (4) any obligation of the United States to acquire flowage 
        or other property rights for additional reservoir storage 
        pursuant to Executive Order 9839 (12 Fed. Reg. 2447; relating 
        to the Grand River Dam Project);
            (5) any authority of the Secretary to acquire real property 
        interest pursuant to section 560 of the Water Resources 
        Development Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-303; 110 Stat. 3783);
            (6) any obligation of the Secretary to conduct and pay the 
        cost of a feasibility study pursuant to section 449 of the 
        Water Resources Development Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-541; 
        114 Stat. 2641);
            (7) the National Flood Insurance Program established under 
        the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et 
        seq.), including any policy issued under that Act; or
            (8) any disaster assistance made available under the Robert 
        T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
        U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) or other Federal disaster assistance 
        program.

            TITLE LXII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

SEC. 6201. STATEMENT OF POLICY AND SENSE OF SENATE ON MUTUAL DEFENSE 
              TREATY WITH THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
that--
            (1) while the United States has long adopted an approach 
        that takes no position on the ultimate disposition of the 
        disputed sovereignty claims in the South China Sea, disputing 
        States should--
                    (A) resolve their disputes peacefully without the 
                threat or use of force; and
                    (B) ensure that their maritime claims are 
                consistent with international law; and
            (2) an attack on the armed forces, public vessels, or 
        aircraft of the Republic of the Philippines in the Pacific, 
        including the South China Sea, would trigger the mutual defense 
        obligations of the United States under Article IV of the Mutual 
        Defense Treaty between the Republic of the Philippines and the 
        United States of America, done at Washington August 30, 1951, 
        ``to meet common dangers in accordance with its constitutional 
        processes''.
    (b) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense should--
            (1) affirm the commitment of the United States to the 
        Mutual Defense Treaty between the United States and the 
        Republic of the Philippines;
            (2) preserve and strengthen the alliance of the United 
        States with the Republic of the Philippines;
            (3) prioritize efforts to develop a shared understanding of 
        alliance commitments and defense planning; and
            (4) provide appropriate support to the Republic of the 
        Philippines to strengthen the self-defense capabilities of the 
        Republic of the Philippines, particularly in the maritime 
        domain.

SEC. 6202. SENSE OF SENATE ON ENHANCED COOPERATION WITH PACIFIC ISLAND 
              COUNTRIES TO ESTABLISH OPEN-SOURCE INTELLIGENCE FUSION 
              CENTERS IN THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Pacific Island countries in the Indo-Pacific region 
        are critical partners of the United States;
            (2) the United States should take steps to enhance 
        collaboration with Pacific Island countries;
            (3) United States Indo-Pacific Command should pursue the 
        establishment of one or more open-source intelligence fusion 
        centers in the Indo-Pacific region to enhance cooperation with 
        Pacific Island countries, which may include participation in an 
        existing fusion center of a partner or ally in lieu of 
        establishing an entirely new fusion center; and
            (4) the United States should continue to support the 
        political, economic, and security partnerships among Australia, 
        New Zealand, and other Pacific Island countries.

SEC. 6203. TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF PROGRAM AUTHORITY FOR GLOBAL SECURITY 
              CONTINGENCY FUND.

    (a) Ineffectiveness of Section 1203.--Section 1203, and the 
amendments made by that section, shall have no force or effect.
    (b) Two-year Extension and Availability of Funds.--Section 1207 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 
2151 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (i)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``September 30, 
                2019'' and inserting ``September 30, 2021''; and
                    (B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Exception.--Amounts appropriated and transferred to 
        the Fund before September 30, 2019, shall remain available for 
        obligation and expenditure after that date, but only for 
        activities under programs commenced under subsection (b) before 
        September 30, 2019.''; and
            (2) in subsection (o)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``September 
                30, 2019'' and inserting ``September 30, 2021''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``through 
                2019'' and inserting ``through 2021''.

SEC. 6204. REPEAL OF PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF ARTICLES ON THE UNITED 
              STATES MUNITIONS LIST TO THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS.

    (a) Sense of the Senate on Cyprus.--It is the sense of the Senate 
that--
            (1) allowing for the export, re-export or transfer of arms 
        subject to the United States Munitions List (part 121 of title 
        22, Code of Federal Regulations) to the Republic of Cyprus 
        would advance United States security interests in Europe by 
        helping to reduce the dependence of the Government of the 
        Republic of Cyprus on other countries, including countries that 
        pose challenges to United States interests around the world, 
        for defense-related materiel; and
            (2) it is in the interest of the United States--
                    (A) to continue to support United Nations-
                facilitated efforts toward a comprehensive solution to 
                the division of Cyprus; and
                    (B) for the Republic of Cyprus to join NATO's 
                Partnership for Peace program.
    (b) Modification of Prohibition.--Section 620C(e) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2373(e)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Any agreement'' and 
        inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (3), any 
        agreement''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The requirement under paragraph (1) shall not apply to any 
sale or other provision of any defense article or defense service to 
Cyprus if the end-user of such defense article or defense service is 
the Government of the Republic of Cyprus.''.
    (c) Exclusion of the Government of the Republic of Cyprus From 
Certain Related Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (d) and except as 
        provided in paragraph (2), beginning on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall not apply a 
        policy of denial for exports, re-exports, or transfers of 
        defense articles and defense services destined for or 
        originating in the Republic of Cyprus if--
                    (A) the request is made by or on behalf of the 
                Government of the Republic of Cyprus; and
                    (B) the end-user of such defense articles or 
                defense services is the Government of the Republic of 
                Cyprus.
            (2) Exception.--This exclusion shall not apply to any 
        denial based upon credible human rights concerns.
    (d) Limitations on the Transfer of Articles on the United States 
Munitions List to the Republic of Cyprus.--
            (1) In general.--The policy of denial for exports, re-
        exports, or transfers of defense articles on the United States 
        Munitions List to the Republic of Cyprus shall remain in place 
        unless the President determines and certifies to the 
        appropriate congressional committees not less than annually 
        that--
                    (A) the Government of the Republic of Cyprus is 
                continuing to cooperate with the United States 
                Government in efforts to implement reforms on anti-
                money laundering regulations and financial regulatory 
                oversight; and
                    (B) the Government of the Republic of Cyprus has 
                made and is continuing to take the steps necessary to 
                deny Russian military vessels access to ports for 
                refueling and servicing.
            (2) Waiver.--The President may waive the limitations 
        contained in this subsection for one fiscal year if the 
        President determines that it is essential to the national 
        security interests of the United States to do so.
            (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
        section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.

SEC. 6205. UNITED STATES-INDIA DEFENSE COOPERATION IN THE WESTERN 
              INDIAN OCEAN.

    (a) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the relevant congressional committees a report on 
        defense cooperation between the United States and India in the 
        Western Indian Ocean.
            (2) Matters to be included.--The report required by 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of military activities of the 
                United States and India, separately, in the Western 
                Indian Ocean.
                    (B) A description of military cooperation 
                activities between the United States and India in the 
                areas of humanitarian assistance, counter terrorism, 
                counter piracy, maritime security, and other areas as 
                the Secretary determines appropriate.
                    (C) A description of how the relevant geographic 
                combatant commands coordinate their activities with the 
                Indian military in the Western Indian Ocean.
                    (D) A description of the mechanisms in place to 
                ensure the relevant geographic combatant commands 
                maximize defense cooperation with India in the Western 
                Indian Ocean.
                    (E) Areas of future opportunity to increase 
                military engagement with India in the Western Indian 
                Ocean.
            (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (b) Military Cooperation Agreements; Conduct of Regular Joint 
Military Training and Operations.--The Secretary of Defense is 
authorized to enter into military cooperation agreements and to conduct 
regular joint military training and operations with India in the 
Western Indian Ocean on behalf of the United States Government, and 
after consultation with the Secretary of State.
    (c) Mechanisms to Maximize Defense Cooperation.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall ensure that the relevant geographic combatant commands 
have proper mechanisms in place to maximize defense cooperation with 
India in the Western Indian Ocean.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Relevant congressional committees.--The term ``relevant 
        congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations 
                of the House of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate.
            (2) Relevant geographic combatant commands.--The term 
        ``relevant geographic combatant commands'' means the United 
        States Indo-Pacific Command, United States Central Command, and 
        United States Africa Command.
            (3) Western indian ocean.--The term ``Western Indian 
        Ocean'' means the area in the Indian Ocean extending from the 
        west coast of India to the east coast of Africa.

SEC. 6206. EXPANSION OF AVAILABILITY OF FINANCIAL ASSETS OF IRAN TO 
              VICTIMS OF TERRORISM.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On October 23, 1983, terrorists sponsored by the 
        Government of Iran bombed the United States Marine barracks in 
        Beirut, Lebanon. The terrorists killed 241 servicemen and 
        injured scores more.
            (2) Those servicemen were killed or injured while on a 
        peacekeeping mission.
            (3) Terrorism sponsored by the Government of Iran threatens 
        the national security of the United States.
            (4) The United States has a vital interest in ensuring that 
        members of the Armed Forces killed or injured by such 
        terrorism, and the family members of such members, are able to 
        seek justice.
    (b) Amendments.--Section 502 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria 
Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8772) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``in the 
                United States'' and inserting ``by or'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``, or an 
                asset that would be blocked if the asset were located 
                in the United States,'' after ``unblocked)''; and
                    (C) in the flush text at the end--
                            (i) by inserting after ``in aid of 
                        execution'' the following: ``, or to an order 
                        directing that the asset be brought to the 
                        State in which the court is located and 
                        subsequently to execution or attachment in aid 
                        of execution,''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, without regard to 
                        concerns relating to international comity'' 
                        after ``resources for such an act'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``that are identified'' and 
                inserting the following: ``that are--
            ``(1) identified'';
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) identified in and the subject of proceedings in the 
        United States District Court for the Southern District of New 
        York in Peterson et al. v. Islamic Republic of Iran et al., 
        Case No. 13 Civ. 9195 (LAP).''; and
            (3) by striking subsection (e).

SEC. 6207. REPORT ON EXPORT OF CERTAIN SATELLITES TO ENTITIES WITH 
              CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP STRUCTURES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with 
the heads of appropriate agencies, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report on addressing the threat or potential 
threat posed by the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of 
satellites described in section 1261(c)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 22 U.S.C. 
2778 note) to entities described in subsection (b).
    (b) Entities Described.--
            (1) In general.--An entity described in this subsection is 
        an entity the beneficial owner of which is--
                    (A) an individual who is a citizen or national of a 
                country described in section 1261(c)(2) of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013;
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of or 
                otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of such a 
                country;
                    (C) the government of such a country; or
                    (D) any other individual or entity the Secretary 
                determines may detrimentally affect the national 
                security of the United States.
            (2) Determination of beneficial ownership.--For purposes of 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall identify a person as the 
        beneficial owner of an entity--
                    (A) in a manner that is not less stringent than the 
                manner set forth in section 240.13d-3 of title 17, Code 
                of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of the 
                enactment of this Act); and
                    (B) based on a threshold, to be determined by the 
                Secretary, based on an assessment of whether the 
                person's position would give the person an opportunity 
                to control the use of a satellite described in section 
                1261(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
                for Fiscal Year 2013 and exported, reexported, or 
                transferred in country to the entity.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An evaluation of whether satellites described in 
        section 1261(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2013 have been exported, reexported, or 
        transferred in-country, directly or indirectly, to entities 
        described in subsection (b).
            (2) An examination of the effect on national security of 
        the potential export, reexport, or in-country transfer of 
        satellites in compliance with section 1261(c) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 in circumstances 
        in which the services, bandwidth, or functions of the 
        satellites could subsequently be leased or sold to, or 
        otherwise used by, an entity described in subsection (b).
            (3) An examination of the effect on national security of 
        not limiting the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of 
        such satellites to entities described in subsection (b).
            (4) Recommendations for, and an assessment of the 
        effectiveness of, a licensing condition that would prohibit or 
        limit the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of such 
        satellites to, or the use of such satellites by, entities 
        described in subsection (b).
            (5) An assessment, based on realistic and justifiable 
        assumptions and forecasts, of the economic implications of and 
        potential harm caused by a licensing condition described in 
        paragraph (4) on the United States industries that develop or 
        produce satellites and commercial telecommunications equipment 
        that do not have direct national security ties, including any 
        costs identified under paragraph (3).
            (6) An evaluation of the resources necessary to ensure the 
        ability of the Bureau of Industry and Security of the 
        Department of Commerce--
                    (A) to adequately identify and analyze the 
                beneficial owners of entities in decisions relating 
                to--
                            (i) issuing licenses for the export, 
                        reexport, or in-country transfer of such 
                        satellites to such entities; or
                            (ii) the ultimate end uses and end-users of 
                        such satellites; and
                    (B) when evaluating such a decision--
                            (i) to have full knowledge of the potential 
                        end-user of the satellite and the current 
                        beneficial owner of the entity; and
                            (ii) to be able to determine whether 
                        issuing the license would be inconsistent with 
                        the goal of preventing entities described in 
                        subsection (b) from accessing or using such 
                        satellites.
    (d) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Financial Services, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the 
        Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select 
        Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 6208. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON HONG KONG PORT VISITS.

    It is the sense of Congress that the Department of Defense should 
continue to make regular requests to the Government of the People's 
Republic of China for the Navy to conduct port calls to Hong Kong, 
including United States aircraft carrier visits.

SEC. 6209. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON POLICY TOWARD HONG KONG.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The United States policy toward Hong Kong is guided by 
        the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-
        383; 106 Stat. 1448) (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Act''), which reaffirms that ``The Hong Kong Special 
        Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, 
        beginning on July 1, 1997, will continue to enjoy a high degree 
        of autonomy on all matters other than defense and foreign 
        affairs.''.
            (2) The Act furthermore states that ``The human rights of 
        the people of Hong Kong are of great importance to the United 
        States and are directly relevant to United States interests in 
        Hong Kong.''.
            (3) Pursuant to section 301 of the Act (22 U.S.C. 5731), 
        the annual report issued by the Department of State on 
        developments in Hong Kong (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Report''), released on March 21, 2019, states that 
        ``Cooperation between the United States Government and the Hong 
        Kong government remains broad and effective in many areas, 
        providing significant benefits to the United States economy and 
        homeland security.''.
            (4) The Report states that ``the Chinese mainland central 
        government implemented or instigated a number of actions that 
        appeared inconsistent with China's commitments in the Basic 
        Law, and in the Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984, to 
        allow Hong Kong to exercise a high degree of autonomy.''.
            (5) The Report furthermore states that the ``Hong Kong 
        authorities took actions aligned with mainland priorities at 
        the expense of human rights and fundamental freedoms. There 
        were particular setbacks in democratic electoral processes, 
        freedom of expression, and freedom of association.''.
            (6) On June 10, 2019, the spokesporson for the Department 
        of State issued a statement expressing ``grave concern about 
        the Hong Kong government's proposed amendments to its Fugitive 
        Offenders Ordinance, which, if passed, would permit Chinese 
        authorities to request the extradition of individuals to 
        mainland China.''.
            (7) According to media reports, in June 2019, over 
        1,000,000 residents of Hong Kong have taken part in 
        demonstrations against the proposed amendments to the Fugitive 
        Offenders Ordinance.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the government of the People's Republic of China and 
        the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's 
        Republic of China authorities should immediately cease taking 
        all actions that undermine Hong Kong's autonomy and negatively 
        impact the protections of fundamental human rights, freedoms, 
        and democratic values of the people of Hong Kong, as enshrined 
        in the Act, Hong Kong's Basic Law of 1997, and the Sino-British 
        Joint Declaration of 1984;
            (2) the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
        People's Republic of China authorities should immediately 
        withdraw from consideration the proposed amendments to its 
        Fugitive Offenders Ordinance and refrain from any unwarranted 
        use of force against the protestors that is inconsistent with 
        internationally recognized law enforcement best practices; and
            (3) the United States should impose financial sanctions, 
        visa bans, and other punitive economic measures against all 
        individuals or entities violating the fundamental human rights 
        and freedoms of the people of Hong Kong, consistent with United 
        States and international law.

SEC. 6210. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF LIMITATION ON MILITARY 
              COOPERATION BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE RUSSIAN 
              FEDERATION.

    Section 1232(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2488), as most recently 
amended by section 1247 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``fiscal year 2017, 2018, or 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
        2017, 2018, 2019, or 2020'';
            (2) in paragraph (1) by striking ``; and'';
            (3) in paragraph (2) by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) the Russian Federation has released the 24 Ukrainian 
        sailors captured in the Kerch Strait on November 25, 2018.''.

SEC. 6211. REVIEW AND REPORT ON OBLIGATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES UNDER 
              TAIWAN RELATIONS ACT.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) Taiwan is a vital partner of the United States and a 
        critical element of the free and open Indo-Pacific region;
            (2) for 40 years, the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3301 
        et seq.) has secured peace, stability, and prosperity and 
        provided enormous benefits to the United States, Taiwan, and 
        the Indo-Pacific region; and
            (3) the United States should reaffirm that the policy of 
        the United States toward diplomatic relations with the People's 
        Republic of China rests upon the expectation that the future of 
        Taiwan will be determined by peaceful means, as described in 
        that Act (22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.).
    (b) Review.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of State, shall conduct a review of--
            (1) whether, and the means by which, as applicable, the 
        Government of the People's Republic of China is affecting, 
        including through military, economic, information, digital, 
        diplomatic, or any other form of coercion--
                    (A) the security, or the social and economic 
                system, of the people of Taiwan;
                    (B) the military balance of power between the 
                People's Republic of China and Taiwan; or
                    (C) the expectation that the future of Taiwan will 
                continue to be determined by peaceful means; and
            (2) the role of United States policy toward Taiwan with 
        respect to the implementation of the 2017 National Security 
        Strategy and the 2018 National Defense Strategy.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of State, shall provide to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report on the review under 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Matters to be included.--The report under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) Recommendations on legislative changes or 
                Department of Defense or Department of State policy 
                changes necessary to ensure that the United States 
                continues to meets its obligations to Taiwan under the 
                Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.).
                    (B) Guidelines for--
                            (i) new defense requirements, including 
                        requirements relating to information and 
                        digital space;
                            (ii) exchanges between senior-level 
                        civilian and military officials of the United 
                        States and Taiwan; and
                            (iii) the regular transfer of defense 
                        articles, especially defense articles that are 
                        mobile, survivable, and cost effective, to most 
                        effectively deter attacks and support the 
                        asymmetric defense strategy of Taiwan.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 6212. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ASIA REASSURANCE INITIATIVE ACT WITH 
              REGARD TO TAIWAN ARMS SALES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Department of Defense Indo-Pacific Strategy Report, 
        released on June 1, 2019, states: ``[T]he Asia Reassurance 
        Initiative Act, a major bipartisan legislation, was signed into 
        law by President Trump on December 31, 2018. This legislation 
        enshrines a generational whole-of-government policy framework 
        that demonstrates U.S. commitment to a free and open Indo-
        Pacific region and includes initiatives that promote 
        sovereignty, rule of law, democracy, economic engagement, and 
        regional security.''.
            (2) The Indo-Pacific Strategy Report further states: ``The 
        United States has a vital interest in upholding the rules-based 
        international order, which includes a strong, prosperous, and 
        democratic Taiwan. . .The Department [of Defense] is committed 
        to providing Taiwan with defense articles and services in such 
        quantity as may be necessary to enable Taiwan to maintain a 
        sufficient self-defense capability.''.
            (3) Section 209(b) of the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act 
        of 2018 (Public Law 115-409), signed into law on December 31, 
        2018--
                    (A) builds on longstanding commitments enshrined in 
                the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) to 
                provide Taiwan with defense articles; and
                    (B) states: ``The President should conduct regular 
                transfers of defense articles to Taiwan that are 
                tailored to meet the existing and likely future threats 
                from the People's Republic of China, including 
                supporting the efforts of Taiwan to develop and 
                integrate asymmetric capabilities, as appropriate, 
                including mobile, survivable, and cost-effective 
                capabilities, into its military forces.''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (Public Law 
        115-409) has recommitted the United States to support the 
        close, economic, political, and security relationship between 
        the United States and Taiwan; and
            (2) the United States should fully implement the provisions 
        of that Act with regard to regular defensive arms sales to 
        Taiwan.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of 
Defense, or their designees, shall brief the appropriate committees of 
Congress on the efforts to implement section 209(b) of the Asia 
Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-409).
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 6213. NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION JOINT FORCES COMMAND.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 16 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 314 North Atlantic Treaty Organization Joint Forces Command
    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary of Defense shall authorize the 
establishment of, and the participation by members of the armed forces 
in, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Joint Forces Command (in 
this section referred to as the `Joint Forces Command'), to be 
established in the United States.
    ``(b) Use of Department of Defense Facilities and Equipment.--The 
Secretary may use facilities and equipment of the Department of Defense 
to support the Joint Forces Command.
    ``(c) Availability of Funds.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated 
to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020 shall be available to 
carry out the purposes of this section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
of subchapter II of chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``314. North Atlantic Treaty Organization Joint Forces Command.''.

SEC. 6214. REPORT ON MILITARY ACTIVITIES OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND 
              THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA IN THE ARCTIC REGION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress the following:
            (1) A report on the military activities of the Russian 
        Federation in the Arctic region.
            (2) A report on the military activities of the People's 
        Republic of China in the Arctic region.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The reports under subsection (a) shall 
include, with respect to the Russian Federation or the People's 
Republic of China, as applicable, the following:
            (1) A description of military activities of such country in 
        the Arctic region, including--
                    (A) the emplacement of military infrastructure, 
                equipment, or forces;
                    (B) any exercises or other military activities; and
                    (C) activities that are non-military in nature, but 
                are considered to have military implications.
            (2) An assessment of--
                    (A) the intentions of such activities;
                    (B) the extent to which such activities affect or 
                threaten the interests of the United States and allies 
                in the Arctic region; and
                    (C) any response to such activities by the United 
                States or allies.
            (3) A description of future plans and requirements with 
        respect to such activities.
    (c) Form.--Each report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
classified form, but may include an unclassified executive summary.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 6215. EFFORTS TO ENSURE MEANINGFUL PARTICIPATION OF AFGHAN WOMEN 
              IN PEACE NEGOTIATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
Secretary of Defense, shall carry out activities to ensure the 
meaningful participation of Afghan women in the ongoing peace process 
in Afghanistan in a manner consistent with the Women, Peace, and 
Security Act of 2017 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note; Public Law 115-68), which 
shall include--
            (1) continued United States Government advocacy for the 
        inclusion of Afghan women leaders in ongoing and future 
        negotiations to end the conflict in Afghanistan; and
            (2) support for the inclusion of constitutional protections 
        on women's and girls' human rights that ensure their freedom of 
        movement, rights to education and work, political 
        participation, and access to healthcare and justice in any 
        agreement reached through intra-Afghan negotiations, including 
        negotiations with the Taliban.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report describing the steps taken to fulfill the duties of 
the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense under subsection 
(a).
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 6216. UPDATED STRATEGY TO COUNTER THE THREAT OF MALIGN INFLUENCE 
              BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND OTHER COUNTRIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
State, in coordination with the appropriate United States Government 
officials, shall jointly update, with the additional elements described 
in subsection (b), the comprehensive strategy to counter the threat of 
malign influence developed pursuant to section 1239A of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 
Stat. 1667).
    (b) Additional Elements.--The updated strategy required under 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
            (1) With respect to each element specified in paragraphs 
        (1) through (7) of subsection (b) of such section 1239A, 
        actions to counter the threat of malign influence operations by 
        the People's Republic of China and any other country engaged in 
        significant malign influence operations.
            (2) A description of the interagency organizational 
        structures and procedures for coordinating the implementation 
        of the comprehensive strategy for countering malign influence 
        by the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, and 
        any other country engaged in significant malign influence 
        operations.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
State shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report detailing the updated strategy required under subsection (a).
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' has the meaning given 
the term in subsection (e) of such section 1239A.

SEC. 6217. MODIFICATION OF SEMIANNUAL REPORT ON ENHANCING SECURITY AND 
              STABILITY IN AFGHANISTAN.

    Paragraph (1) of section 1225(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291; 127 Stat. 3550) is amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading by inserting ``and taking into 
        account the august 2017 strategy of the united states'' after 
        ``2014''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                a semicolon;
                    (B) by striking ``in the assessment of any such'' 
                and inserting ``in the assessment of--
                            ``(i) any such''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new clauses:
                            ``(ii) the United States counterterrorism 
                        mission; and
                            ``(iii) efforts by the Department of 
                        Defense to support reconciliation efforts and 
                        develop conditions for the expansion of the 
                        reach of the Government of Afghanistan 
                        throughout Afghanistan.''.

SEC. 6218. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ACQUISITION BY TURKEY OF S-400 AIR 
              DEFENSE SYSTEM.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) Turkey is an important North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization ally and military partner;
            (2) the acquisition by the Government of Turkey of the S-
        400 air defense system from the Russian Federation--
                    (A) undermines--
                            (i) the security interests of the United 
                        States; and
                            (ii) the air defense of Turkey;
                    (B) weakens the interoperability of the North 
                Atlantic Treaty Organization; and
                    (C) is incompatible with the plan of the Government 
                of Turkey--
                            (i) to accept delivery of and operate the 
                        F-35 aircraft; and
                            (ii) to continue to participate in F-35 
                        aircraft production and maintenance;
            (3) the United States and other member countries of the 
        North Atlantic Treaty Organization have put forth several 
        viable and competitive proposals to protect the vulnerable 
        airspace of Turkey and to ensure the security and integrity of 
        Turkey as a North Atlantic Treaty Organization ally;
            (4) Russian Federation aggression on the periphery of 
        Turkey, including in Georgia, Ukraine, the Black Sea, and 
        Syria, and especially the indiscriminate bombing by the Russian 
        Federation of the Idlib province of Syria on the border of 
        Turkey and the incursions of Russian Federation warplanes into 
        the airspace of Turkey on November 24, 2015, and other 
        occasions, endangers the security of Turkey;
            (5) the termination of the participation of Turkey in the 
        F-35 program and supply chain, which may still be avoided if 
        the Government of Turkey abandons its planned acquisition of 
        the S-400 air defense system, would cause significant harm to 
        the growing defense industry and economy of Turkey; and
            (6) if the Government of Turkey accepts delivery of the S-
        400 air defense system--
                    (A) such acceptance would--
                            (i) constitute a significant transaction 
                        within the meaning of section 231(a) of the 
                        Countering Russian Influence in Europe and 
                        Eurasia Act of 2017 (22 U.S.C. 9525(a));
                            (ii) endanger the integrity of the North 
                        Atlantic Treaty Organization Alliance and pose 
                        a significant threat to Turkey;
                            (iii) adversely affect ongoing operations 
                        of the United States Armed Forces, including 
                        coalition operations in which the United States 
                        Armed Forces participate;
                            (iv) result in a significant impact to 
                        defense cooperation between the United States 
                        and Turkey; and
                            (v) significantly increase the risk of 
                        compromising United States defense systems and 
                        operational capabilities; and
                    (B) the President should fully implement the 
                Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act 
                of 2017 (Public Law 115-44; 131 Stat. 886) by imposing 
                and applying sanctions under section 235 of that Act 
                (22 U.S.C. 9529) with respect to any individual or 
                entity determined to have engaged in such significant 
                transaction as if such person were a sanctioned person 
                for purposes of such section.

SEC. 6219. MODIFICATION OF INITIATIVE TO SUPPORT PROTECTION OF NATIONAL 
              SECURITY ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS FROM UNDUE INFLUENCE AND 
              OTHER SECURITY THREATS.

    Paragraph (2) of section 1286(c) of the John S. McCain National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Training, developed and delivered in consultation 
        with academic institutions, and other support to academic 
        institutions to promote security and limit undue influence on 
        institutions and personnel, including financial support for 
        execution for such activities, that--
                    ``(A) emphasizes best practices for protection of 
                sensitive national security information; and
                    ``(B) includes the dissemination of unclassified 
                publications and resources for identifying and 
                protecting against emerging threats to academic 
                research institutions, including specific 
                counterintelligence guidance developed for faculty and 
                academic researchers based on specific threats.''.

SEC. 6231. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO SOVEREIGNTY 
              OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION OVER CRIMEA.

    The text of subsection (a) of section 1231 is hereby deemed to read 
as follows:
    ``(a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense may be 
obligated or expended to implement any activity that recognizes the 
sovereignty of the Russian Federation over Crimea, and the Department 
may not otherwise implement any such activity.''.

SEC. 6236. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF F-35 AIRCRAFT TO THE REPUBLIC OF 
              TURKEY.

    The text of subsection (a) of section 1236 preceding paragraph (1) 
is hereby deemed to read as follows:
    ``(a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 
2020 for the Department of Defense, may be used to do the following, 
and the Department may not otherwise do the following:''.

                    TITLE LXIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 6401. ASSESSMENT OF RARE EARTH SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Defense Logistics Agency, shall submit to Congress a report assessing 
issues relating to the supply chain for rare earth materials.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An assessment of the rare earth materials in the 
        reserves held by the United States.
            (2) A estimate of the needs of the United States for such 
        materials--
                    (A) in general; and
                    (B) to support a major near-peer conflict such as 
                is outlined in war game scenarios included in the 2018 
                National Defense Strategy.
            (3) An assessment of the extent to which substitutes for 
        such materials are available.

SEC. 6422. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR RESIDENCE AT THE ARMED FORCE 
              RETIREMENT HOME.

    Section 1422, and the amendments made by that section, shall have 
no force or effect.

  TITLE LXV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                     Subtitle A--General Provisions

SEC. 6501. REVIEW OF JOINT IMPROVISED-THREAT DEFEAT ORGANIZATION 
              RESEARCH RELATING TO HUMANITARIAN DEMINING EFFORTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a review 
of the research of the Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Organization to 
identify information that may be released to United States humanitarian 
demining organizations for the purpose of improving the efficiency and 
effectiveness of humanitarian demining efforts.
    (b) Report to Congress.--The Secretary shall submit a report to the 
congressional defense committees detailing the research identified 
under subsection (a).

                 Subtitle B--Inspectors General Matters

SEC. 6511. ESTABLISHMENT OF LEAD INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR AN OVERSEAS 
              CONTINGENCY OPERATION BASED ON SECRETARY OF DEFENSE 
              NOTIFICATION.

    (a) Notification on Commencement of OCO.--Section 113 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(n) Notification of Certain Overseas Contingency Operations for 
Purposes of Inspector General Act of 1978.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall provide the Chair of the Council of Inspectors General on 
Integrity and Efficiency written notification of the commencement or 
designation of a military operation as an overseas contingency 
operation upon the earlier of--
            ``(1) a determination by the Secretary that the overseas 
        contingency operation is expected to exceed 60 days; or
            ``(2) the date on which the overseas contingency operation 
        exceeds 60 days.''.
    (b) Establishment of Lead Inspector General Based on 
Notification.--Section 8L of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Upon the commencement'' and all 
                that follows through ``the Chair'' and inserting ``The 
                Chair''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``upon the earlier of--
            ``(1) the commencement or designation of a military 
        operation as an overseas contingency operation that exceeds 60 
        days; or
            ``(2) receipt of a notification under section 113(n) of 
        title 10, United States Code, with respect to an overseas 
        contingency operation''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``the commencement or 
        designation of the military operation concerned as an overseas 
        contingency operation that exceeds 60 days'' and inserting 
        ``the earlier of--
                    ``(A) the commencement or designation of the 
                military operation concerned as an overseas contingency 
                operation that exceeds 60 days; or
                    ``(B) receipt of a notification under section 
                113(n) of title 10, United States Code, with respect to 
                an overseas contingency operation''.

SEC. 6512. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS GENERAL FOR 
              OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

    Section 8L(d)(2) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``to exercise'' and 
                all that follows through ``such matter'' and inserting 
                ``to identify and coordinate with the Inspector General 
                who has principal jurisdiction over the matter to 
                ensure effective oversight''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(iii)(I) Upon written request by the Inspector 
                General with principal jurisdiction over a matter with 
                respect to the contingency operation, and with the 
                approval of the lead Inspector General, an Inspector 
                General specified in subsection (c) may provide 
                investigative support or conduct an independent 
                investigation of an allegation of criminal activity by 
                any United States personnel, contractor, subcontractor, 
                grantee, or vendor in the applicable theater of 
                operations.
                    ``(II) In the case of a determination by the lead 
                Inspector General that no Inspector General has 
                principal jurisdiction over a matter with respect to 
                the contingency operation, the lead Inspector General 
                may--
                            ``(aa) conduct an independent investigation 
                        of an allegation described in subclause (I); or
                            ``(bb) request that an Inspector General 
                        specified in subsection (c) conduct such 
                        investigation.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(I) To enhance cooperation among Inspectors 
                General and encourage comprehensive oversight of the 
                contingency operation, any Inspector General 
                responsible for conducting oversight of any program or 
                operation performed in support of the contingency 
                operation may, to the maximum extent practicable and 
                consistent with the duties, responsibilities, policies, 
                and procedures of such Inspector General--
                            ``(i) coordinate such oversight activities 
                        with the lead Inspector General; and
                            ``(ii) provide information requested by the 
                        lead Inspector General relating to the 
                        responsibilities of the lead Inspector General 
                        described in subparagraphs (B), (C), and 
                        (G).''.

SEC. 6513. EMPLOYMENT STATUS OF ANNUITANTS FOR INSPECTORS GENERAL FOR 
              OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

    Section 8L(d) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(E), by inserting ``(without regard to 
        subsection (b)(2) of such section)'' after ``United States 
        Code,'';
            (2) in paragraph (3), by amending subparagraph (C) to read 
        as follows:
            ``(C)(i) An annuitant receiving an annuity under the 
        Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System or the Foreign 
        Service Pension System under chapter 8 of title I of the 
        Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4041 et seq.) who is 
        reemployed under this subsection--
                    ``(I) shall continue to receive the annuity; and
                    ``(II) shall not be considered a participant for 
                purposes of chapter 8 of title I of the Foreign Service 
                Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4041 et seq.) or an employee for 
                purposes of subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 
                of title 5, United States Code.
            ``(ii) An annuitant described in clause (i) may elect in 
        writing for the reemployment of the annuitant under this 
        subsection to be subject to section 824 of the Foreign Service 
        Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4064). A reemployed annuitant shall make 
        an election under this clause not later than 90 days after the 
        date of the reemployment of the annuitant.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(5)(A) A person employed by a lead Inspector General for an 
overseas contingency operation under this section shall acquire 
competitive status for appointment to any position in the competitive 
service for which the employee possesses the required qualifications 
upon the completion of 2 years of continuous service as an employee 
under this section.
    ``(B) No person who is first employed as described in subparagraph 
(A) more than 2 years after the date of the enactment of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 may acquire competitive 
status under subparagraph (A).''.

    TITLE LXVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

SEC. 6601. ANNUAL REPORT ON DEVELOPMENT OF GROUND-BASED STRATEGIC 
              DETERRENT WEAPON.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than February 15, 2020, and 
annually thereafter until the date on which the ground-based strategic 
deterrent weapon receives Milestone C approval (as defined in section 
2366 of title 10, United States Code), the Secretary of the Air Force, 
in coordination with the Administrator for Nuclear Security and the 
Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council, shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report describing the joint 
development of the ground-based strategic deterrent weapon, including 
the missile developed by the Air Force and the W87-1 warhead 
modification program conducted by the National Nuclear Security 
Administration.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An estimate of the date on which the ground-based 
        strategic deterrent weapon will reach initial operating 
        capability.
            (2) A description of any development milestones for the 
        missile developed by the Air Force or the warhead developed by 
        the National Nuclear Security Administration that depend on 
        corresponding progress at the other agency.
            (3) A description of coordination efforts between the Air 
        Force and the National Nuclear Security Administration during 
        the year preceding submission of the report.
            (4) A description of any schedule delays projected by the 
        Air Force or the National Nuclear Security Administration, 
        including delays related to infrastructure capacity and 
        subcomponent production, and the anticipated effect such delays 
        would have on the schedule of work of the other agency.
            (5) Plans to mitigate the effects of any delays described 
        in paragraph (4).
            (6) A description of any ways, including through the 
        availability of additional funding or authorities, in which the 
        development milestones described in paragraph (2) or the 
        estimated date of initial operating capability referred to in 
        paragraph (1) could be achieved more quickly.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 6602. SENSE OF SENATE ON SUPPORT FOR A ROBUST AND MODERN ICBM 
              FORCE TO MAXIMIZE THE VALUE OF THE NUCLEAR TRIAD OF THE 
              UNITED STATES.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) Land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles (in this 
        section referred to as ``ICBMs'') have been a critical part of 
        the strategic deterrent of the United States for 6 decades in 
        conjunction with air and sea-based strategic delivery systems.
            (2) President John F. Kennedy referred to the deployment of 
        the first Minuteman missile during the Cuban Missile Crisis as 
        his ``ace in the hole''.
            (3) The Minuteman III missile entered service in 1970 and 
        is still deployed in 2019, well beyond its originally intended 
        service life.
            (4) The ICBM force of the United States peaked at more than 
        1,200 deployed missiles during the Cold War.
            (5) The ICBM force of the United States currently consists 
        of approximately 400 Minuteman III missiles deployed across 450 
        operational missile silos, each carrying a single warhead.
            (6) The Russian Federation currently deploys at least 300 
        ICBMs with multiple warheads loaded on each missile and has 
        announced plans to replace its Soviet-era systems with 
        modernized ICBMs.
            (7) The People's Republic of China currently deploys at 
        least 75 ICBMs and plans to grow its ICBM force through the 
        deployment of modernized, road-mobile ICBMs that carry multiple 
        warheads.
            (8) The Russian Federation and the People's Republic of 
        China deploy nuclear weapons across a variety of platforms in 
        addition to their ICBM forces.
            (9) Numerous countries possess or are seeking to develop 
        nuclear weapons capabilities that pose challenges to the 
        nuclear deterrence of the United States.
            (10) The nuclear deterrent of the United States is 
        comprised of a triad of delivery systems for nuclear weapons, 
        including submarine-launched ballistic missiles (in this 
        subsection referred to as ``SLBMs''), air-delivered gravity 
        bombs and cruise missiles, and land-based ballistic missiles 
        that provide interlocking and mutually reinforcing attributes 
        that enhance strategic deterrence.
            (11) Weakening one leg of the triad limits the deterrent 
        value of the other legs of the triad.
            (12) In the nuclear deterrent of the United States, ICBMs 
        provide commanders with the most prompt response capability, 
        SLBMs provide stealth and survivability, and aircraft armed 
        with nuclear weapons provide flexibility.
            (13) The ICBM force of the United States forces any would-
        be attacker to confront more than 400 discrete targets, thus 
        creating an effectively insurmountable targeting problem for a 
        potential adversary.
            (14) The size, dispersal, and global reach of the ICBM 
        force of the United States ensures that no adversary can 
        escalate a crisis beyond the ability of the United States to 
        respond.
            (15) A potential attacker would be forced to expend far 
        more warheads to destroy the ICBMs of the United States than 
        the United States would lose in an attack, because of the 
        deployment of a single warhead on each ICBM of the United 
        States.
            (16) The ICBM force provides a persistent deterrent 
        capability that reinforces strategic stability.
            (17) ICBMs are the cheapest delivery system for nuclear 
        weapons for the United States to operate and maintain.
            (18) United States Strategic Command has validated military 
        requirements for the unique capabilities of ICBMs.
            (19) In a 2014 analysis of alternatives, the Air Force 
        concluded that replacing the Minuteman III missile would 
        provide upgraded capabilities at lower cost when compared with 
        extending the service life of the Minuteman III missile.
            (20) The Minuteman III replacement program, known as the 
        ground-based strategic deterrent, is expected to provide a 
        land-based strategic deterrent capability for 5 decades after 
        the program enters service.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) land-based ICBMs have certain characteristics, 
        including responsiveness, persistence, and dispersal, that 
        enhance strategic stability and magnify the deterrent value of 
        the air and sea-based legs of the nuclear triad of the United 
        States;
            (2) ICBMs have played and continue to play a role in 
        deterring attacks on the United States and its allies;
            (3) while arms control agreements have reduced the size of 
        the ICBM force of the United States, adversaries of the United 
        States continue to enhance, enlarge, and modernize their ICBM 
        forces;
            (4) the modernization of the ICBM force of the United 
        States through the ground-based strategic deterrent program 
        should be supported;
            (5) ICBMs have the lowest operation, maintenance, and 
        modernization costs of any part of the nuclear deterrent of the 
        United States; and
            (6) unilaterally reducing the size of the ICBM force of the 
        United States or delaying the implementation of the ground-
        based strategic deterrent program would degrade the deterrent 
        capabilities of a fully operational and modernized nuclear 
        triad and should not take place at the present time.

SEC. 6603. REPORTS BY MILITARY DEPARTMENTS ON OPERATION OF CONVENTIONAL 
              FORCES UNDER EMPLOYMENT OR THREAT OF EMPLOYMENT OF 
              NUCLEAR WEAPONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of 
the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Commandant of the Marine 
Corps shall each submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report detailing the measures taken by the appropriate Secretary or the 
Commandant to ensure the ability of conventional forces to operate 
effectively under employment or threat of employment of nuclear weapons 
by the United States, an ally of the United States, or an adversary of 
the United States.
    (b) Form of Report.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in classified form but shall be accompanied by an 
unclassified summary appropriate for release to the public.

SEC. 6604. REPORTS BY UNITED STATES EUROPEAN COMMAND AND UNITED STATES 
              INDO-PACIFIC COMMAND ON OPERATION OF CERTAIN CONVENTIONAL 
              FORCES UNDER EMPLOYMENT OR THREAT OF EMPLOYMENT OF 
              NUCLEAR WEAPONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Commander of the United States European 
Command and the Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command, in 
consultation with the Commander of the United States Strategic Command, 
shall each submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
detailing the measures taken by the Commander to ensure the ability of 
conventional forces under the authority of the Commander to execute 
contingency plans under employment or threat of employment of nuclear 
weapons by the United States, an ally of the United States, or an 
adversary of the United States.
    (b) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in classified form but shall be accompanied by an 
unclassified summary appropriate for release to the public.

SEC. 6605. JOINT ASSESSMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CYBER RED TEAM 
              CAPABILITIES, CAPACITY, DEMAND, AND REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Joint Assessment Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
coordination with the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
Defense, Principal Cyber Advisor, and the Director of Operational Test 
and Evaluation--
            (1) conduct a joint assessment of Department cyber red team 
        capabilities, capacity, demand, and future requirements that 
        affect the Department's ability to develop, test, and maintain 
        secure systems in a cyber environment; and
            (2) brief the congressional defense committees on the 
        results of the joint assessment.
    (b) Elements.--The joint assessment required by subsection (a)(1) 
shall--
            (1) specify demand for cyber red team support for 
        acquisition and operations;
            (2) specify shortfalls in meeting demand and future 
        requirements, disaggregated by the Department of Defense and by 
        each of the military departments;
            (3) examine funding and retention initiatives to increase 
        cyber red team capacity to meet demand and future requirements 
        identified to support the testing, training, and development 
        communities;
            (4) examine the feasibility and benefit of developing and 
        procuring a common Red Team Integrated Capabilities Stack that 
        better utilizes increased capacity of cyber ranges and better 
        models the capabilities and tactics, techniques, and procedures 
        of adversaries;
            (5) examine the establishment of oversight and assessment 
        metrics for Department cyber red teams;
            (6) assess the implementation of common development for 
        tools, techniques, and training;
            (7) assess potential industry and academic partnerships and 
        services;
            (8) assess the mechanisms and procedures in place to 
        deconflict red-team activities and defensive cyber operations 
        on active networks;
            (9) assess the use of Department cyber personnel in 
        training as red team support;
            (10) assess the use of industry and academic partners and 
        contractors as red team support and the cost- and resource-
        effectiveness of such support; and
            (11) assess the need for permanent, high-end dedicated red-
        teaming activities to model sophisticated adversaries' 
        attacking critical Department systems and infrastructure.

SEC. 6606. REPORT ON THE EXPANDED PURVIEW OF THE DEFENSE 
              COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
Congress a report on the Defense Counterintelligence and Security 
Agency.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) Identification of the resources and authorities 
        appropriate for the Inspector General for the expanded purview 
        of the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
            (2) Identification of the resources and authorities needed 
        to perform the civil liberties and privacy officer function of 
        the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
            (3) An assessment of the security protocols in effect for 
        personally identifiable information held by the Defense 
        Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
            (4) An assessment of the governance structure of the 
        Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency as it relates 
        to the Department of Defense, including with respect to status, 
        authorities, and leadership.
            (5) An assessment of the governance structure of the 
        Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency as it relates 
        to interagency partners, including the Office of Management and 
        Budget, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, 
        and the Office of Personnel Management.
            (6) The methodology the Defense Counterintelligence and 
        Security Agency will prioritize requests for background 
        investigation requests from government agencies and industry.

SEC. 6664. PROHIBITION ON REDUCTION OF THE INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC 
              MISSILES OF THE UNITED STATES.

    The text of subsection (a) of section 1664 is hereby deemed to read 
as follows:
    ``(a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 
2020 for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended for the 
following, and the Department may not otherwise take any action to do 
the following:
            ``(1) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the responsiveness or 
        alert level of the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the 
        United States.
            ``(2) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the quantity of 
        deployed intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United 
        States to a number less than 400.''.

  TITLE LXVII--PFAS RELEASE DISCLOSURE, DETECTION, AND SAFE DRINKING 
                            WATER ASSISTANCE

SEC. 6701. DEFINITION OF ADMINISTRATOR.

    In this title, the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency.

                  Subtitle A--PFAS Release Disclosure

SEC. 6711. ADDITIONS TO TOXICS RELEASE INVENTORY.

    (a) Definition of Toxics Release Inventory.--In this section, the 
term ``toxics release inventory'' means the toxics release inventory 
under section 313(c) of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-
Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(c)).
    (b) Immediate Inclusion.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (e), beginning 
        January 1 of the calendar year following the date of enactment 
        of this Act, the following chemicals shall be deemed to be 
        included in the toxics release inventory:
                    (A) Perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly referred to as 
                ``PFOA'') (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 335-67-1).
                    (B) The salt associated with the chemical described 
                in subparagraph (A) (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 
                3825-26-1).
                    (C) Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (commonly 
                referred to as ``PFOS'') (Chemical Abstracts Service 
                No. 1763-23-1).
                    (D) The salts associated with the chemical 
                described in subparagraph (C) (Chemical Abstract 
                Service Nos. 45298-90-6, 29457-72-5, 56773-42-3, 29081-
                56-9, 4021-47-0, 111873-33-7, and 91036-71-4).
                    (E) A perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance 
                or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                substances that is--
                            (i) listed as an active chemical substance 
                        in the February 2019 update to the inventory 
                        under section 8(b)(1) of the Toxic Substances 
                        Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607(b)(1)); and
                            (ii) on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                        subject to the provisions of--
                                    (I) section 721.9582 of title 40, 
                                Code of Federal Regulations; or
                                    (II) section 721.10536 of title 40, 
                                Code of Federal Regulations.
            (2) Threshold for reporting.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                threshold for reporting the chemicals described in 
                paragraph (1) under section 313(f)(1) of the Emergency 
                Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42 
                U.S.C. 11023(f)(1)) is 100 pounds.
                    (B) Revisions.--Not later than 5 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
                shall--
                            (i) determine whether revision of the 
                        threshold under subparagraph (A) is warranted; 
                        and
                            (ii) if the Administrator determines a 
                        revision to be warranted under clause (i), 
                        initiate a revision under section 313(f)(2) of 
                        the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-
                        Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(f)(2)).
    (c) Inclusion Following Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (e), a 
        perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
        perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances shall be 
        automatically included in the toxics release inventory 
        beginning January 1 of the calendar year after any of the 
        following dates:
                    (A) Establishment of toxicity value.--The date on 
                which the Administrator establishes a toxicity value 
                for the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or 
                class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances.
                    (B) Significant new use rule.--The date on which 
                the Administrator finalizes a significant new use rule 
                under subsection (a)(2) of section 5 of the Toxic 
                Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2604), except a 
                significant new use rule promulgated in connection with 
                an order issued under subsection (e) of that section, 
                for the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or 
                class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances.
                    (C) Addition to existing significant new use 
                rule.--The date on which the perfluoroalkyl or 
                polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or 
                polyfluoroalkyl substances is added to a list of 
                substances covered by a significant new use rule 
                previously promulgated under subsection (a)(2) of 
                section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 
                U.S.C. 2604), except a significant new use rule 
                promulgated in connection with an order issued under 
                subsection (e) of that section.
                    (D) Addition as active chemical substance.--The 
                date on which the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                substances that is on a list of substances covered by a 
                significant new use rule under subsection (a)(2) of 
                section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 
                U.S.C. 2604), except a significant new use rule 
                promulgated in connection with an order issued under 
                subsection (e) of that section, is--
                            (i) added to the inventory under subsection 
                        (b)(1) of section 8 of the Toxic Substances 
                        Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607) and designated as 
                        an active chemical substance under subsection 
                        (b)(5)(A) of that section; or
                            (ii) designated as an active chemical 
                        substance on the inventory in accordance with 
                        subsection (b)(5)(B) of that section.
            (2) Threshold for reporting.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                threshold for reporting under section 313(f)(1) of the 
                Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 
                1986 (42 U.S.C. 11203(f)(1)) the substances and classes 
                of substances included in the toxics release inventory 
                under paragraph (1) is 100 pounds.
                    (B) Revisions.--Not later than 5 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
                shall--
                            (i) determine whether revision of the 
                        thresholds under subparagraph (A) is warranted; 
                        and
                            (ii) if the Administrator determines a 
                        revision to be warranted under clause (i), 
                        initiate a revision under section 313(f)(2) of 
                        the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-
                        Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(f)(2)).
    (d) Inclusion Following Determination.--
            (1) In general.--To the extent not already subject to 
        subsection (b), not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall determine 
        whether the substances and classes of substances described in 
        paragraph (2) meet the criteria described in section 313(d)(2) 
        of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 
        1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(d)(2)) for inclusion in the toxics 
        release inventory.
            (2) Substances described.--The substances and classes of 
        substances referred to in paragraph (1) are perfluoroalkyl and 
        polyfluoroalkyl substances and classes of perfluoroalkyl and 
        polyfluoroalkyl substances, including--
                    (A) hexafluoropropylene oxide dimer acid (Chemical 
                Abstracts Service No. 13252-13-6);
                    (B) the compounds associated with the chemical 
                described in subparagraph (A) (Chemical Abstracts 
                Service Nos. 62037-80-3 and 2062-98-8);
                    (C) perfluoro[(2-pentafluoroethoxy-ethoxy)acetic 
                acid] ammonium salt (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 
                908020-52-0);
                    (D) 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro 2-(1,1,2,3,3,3-hexafluoro)-
                2-(trifluoromethoxy) propanoyl fluoride (Chemical 
                Abstracts Service No. 2479-75-6);
                    (E) 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro 2-(1,1,2,3,3,3-hexafluoro)-
                2-(trifluoromethoxy) propionic acid (Chemical Abstracts 
                Service No. 2479-73-4);
                    (F) 3H-perfluoro-3-[(3-methoxy-propoxy) propanoic 
                acid] (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 919005-14-4);
                    (G) the salts associated with the chemical 
                described in subparagraph (F) (Chemical Abstracts 
                Service Nos. 958445-44-8, 1087271-46-2, and 
                NOCAS_892452);
                    (H) 1-octanesulfonic acid 3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8-
                tridecafluoro-potassium salt (Chemical Abstracts 
                Service No. 59587-38-1);
                    (I) perfluorobutanesulfonic acid (Chemical 
                Abstracts Service No. 375-73-5);
                    (J) 1-Butanesulfonic acid, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
                nonafluoro-potassium salt (Chemical Abstracts Service 
                No. 29420-49-3);
                    (K) the component associated with the chemical 
                described in subparagraph (J) (Chemical Abstracts 
                Service No. 45187-15-3);
                    (L) heptafluorobutyric acid (Chemical Abstracts 
                Service No. 375-22-4);
                    (M) perfluorohexanoic acid (Chemical Abstracts 
                Service No. 307-24-4);
                    (N) each perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkly 
                substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                substances for which a method to measure levels in 
                drinking water has been validated by the Administrator; 
                and
                    (O) a perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substance 
                or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                substances other than the chemicals described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (N) that is used to 
                manufacture fluoropolymers, as determined by the 
                Administrator.
            (3) Addition to toxics release inventory.--Subject to 
        subsection (e), if the Administrator determines under paragraph 
        (1) that a substance or a class of substances described in 
        paragraph (2) meets the criteria described in section 313(d)(2) 
        of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 
        1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(d)(2)), the Administrator shall revise 
        the toxics release inventory to include that substance or class 
        of substances not later than 2 years after the date on which 
        the Administrator makes the determination.
    (e) Confidential Business Information.--
            (1) In general.--Prior to including on the toxics release 
        inventory pursuant to subsection (b)(1), (c)(1), or (d)(3) any 
        perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
        perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances the chemical 
        identity of which is subject to a claim of a person of 
        protection from disclosure under subsection (a) of section 552 
        of title 5, United States Code, pursuant to subsection (b)(4) 
        of that section, the Administrator shall--
                    (A) review that claim of protection from 
                disclosure; and
                    (B) require that person to reassert and 
                substantiate or resubstantiate that claim in accordance 
                with section 14(f) of the Toxic Substances Control Act 
                (15 U.S.C. 2613(f)).
            (2) Nondisclosure of protection information.--If the 
        Administrator determines that the chemical identity of a 
        perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
        perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances qualifies for 
        protection from disclosure under paragraph (1), the 
        Administrator shall include the substance or class of 
        substances, as applicable, on the toxics release inventory in a 
        manner that does not disclose the protected information.
    (f) Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986.--
Section 313(c) of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know 
Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
        and'';
            (2) by striking ``are those chemicals'' and inserting the 
        following: ``are--
            ``(1) the chemicals''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) the chemicals included under subsections (b)(1), 
        (c)(1), and (d)(3) of section 6711 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.''.

                       Subtitle B--Drinking Water

SEC. 6721. NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS FOR PFAS.

    Section 1412(b)(2) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300g-
1(b)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
                substances.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than 2 years 
                        after the date of enactment of this 
                        subparagraph, the Administrator shall 
                        promulgate a national primary drinking water 
                        regulation for perfluoroalkyl and 
                        polyfluoroalkyl substances, which shall, at a 
                        minimum, include standards for--
                                    ``(I) perfluorooctanoic acid 
                                (commonly referred to as `PFOA'); and
                                    ``(II) perfluorooctane sulfonic 
                                acid (commonly referred to as `PFOS').
                            ``(ii) Alternative procedures.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Not later than 1 
                                year after the validation by the 
                                Administrator of an equally effective 
                                quality control and testing procedure 
                                to ensure compliance with that national 
                                primary drinking water regulation to 
                                measure the levels described in 
                                subclause (II) or other methods to 
                                detect and monitor perfluoroalkyl and 
                                polyfluoroalkyl substances in drinking 
                                water, the Administrator shall add the 
                                procedure or method as an alternative 
                                to the quality control and testing 
                                procedure described in that national 
                                primary drinking water regulation by 
                                publishing the procedure or method in 
                                the Federal Register.
                                    ``(II) Levels described.--The 
                                levels referred to in subclause (I) 
                                are--
                                            ``(aa) the level of a 
                                        perfluoroalkyl or 
                                        polyfluoroalkyl substance;
                                            ``(bb) the total levels of 
                                        perfluoroalkyl and 
                                        polyfluoroalkyl substances; and
                                            ``(cc) the total levels of 
                                        organic fluorine.
                            ``(iii) Inclusions.--The Administrator may 
                        include a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                        substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or 
                        polyfluoroalkyl substances on--
                                    ``(I) the list of contaminants for 
                                consideration of regulation under 
                                paragraph (1)(B)(i); and
                                    ``(II) the list of unregulated 
                                contaminants to be monitored under 
                                section 1445(a)(2)(B)(i).
                            ``(iv) Monitoring.--When establishing 
                        monitoring requirements for public water 
                        systems as part of a national primary drinking 
                        water regulation under clause (i) or clause 
                        (vi)(II), the Administrator shall tailor the 
                        monitoring requirements for public water 
                        systems that do not detect or are reliably and 
                        consistently below the maximum contaminant 
                        level (as defined in section 1418(b)(2)(B)) for 
                        the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance 
                        or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                        substances subject to the national primary 
                        drinking water regulation.
                            ``(v) Health risk reduction and cost 
                        analysis.--In meeting the requirements of 
                        paragraph (3)(C), the Administrator may rely on 
                        information available to the Administrator with 
                        respect to 1 or more specific perfluoroalkyl or 
                        polyfluoroalkyl substances to extrapolate 
                        reasoned conclusions regarding the health risks 
                        and effects of a class of perfluoroalkyl or 
                        polyfluoroalkyl substances of which the 
                        specific perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                        substances are a part.
                            ``(vi) Regulation of additional 
                        substances.--
                                    ``(I) Determination.--The 
                                Administrator shall make a 
                                determination under paragraph (1)(A), 
                                using the criteria described in clauses 
                                (i) through (iii) of that paragraph, 
                                whether to include a perfluoroalkyl or 
                                polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
                                perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                                substances in the national primary 
                                drinking water regulation under clause 
                                (i) not later than 18 months after the 
                                later of--
                                            ``(aa) the date on which 
                                        the perfluoroalkyl or 
                                        polyfluoroalkyl substance or 
                                        class of perfluoroalkyl or 
                                        polyfluoroalkyl substances is 
                                        listed on the list of 
                                        contaminants for consideration 
                                        of regulation under paragraph 
                                        (1)(B)(i); and
                                            ``(bb) the date on which--

                                                    ``(AA) the 
                                                Administrator has 
                                                received the results of 
                                                monitoring under 
                                                section 1445(a)(2)(B) 
                                                for the perfluoroalkyl 
                                                or polyfluoroalkyl 
                                                substance or class of 
                                                perfluoroalkyl or 
                                                polyfluoroalkyl 
                                                substance; or

                                                    ``(BB) the 
                                                Administrator has 
                                                received finished water 
                                                data or finished water 
                                                monitoring surveys for 
                                                the perfluoroalkyl or 
                                                polyfluoroalkyl 
                                                substance or class of 
                                                perfluoroalkyl or 
                                                polyfluoroalkyl 
                                                substances from a 
                                                Federal or State agency 
                                                that the Administrator 
                                                determines to be 
                                                sufficient to make a 
                                                determination under 
                                                paragraph (1)(A).

                                    ``(II) Primary drinking water 
                                regulations.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--For 
                                        each perfluoroalkyl or 
                                        polyfluoroalkyl substance or 
                                        class of perfluoroalkyl or 
                                        polyfluoroalkyl substances that 
                                        the Administrator determines to 
                                        regulate under subclause (I), 
                                        the Administrator--

                                                    ``(AA) not later 
                                                than 18 months after 
                                                the date on which the 
                                                Administrator makes the 
                                                determination, shall 
                                                propose a national 
                                                primary drinking water 
                                                regulation for the 
                                                perfluoroalkyl or 
                                                polyfluoroalkyl 
                                                substance or class of 
                                                perfluoroalkyl or 
                                                polyfluoroalkyl 
                                                substances; and

                                                    ``(BB) may publish 
                                                the proposed national 
                                                primary drinking water 
                                                regulation described in 
                                                subitem (AA) 
                                                concurrently with the 
                                                publication of the 
                                                determination to 
                                                regulate the 
                                                perfluoroalkyl or 
                                                polyfluoroalkyl 
                                                substance or class of 
                                                perfluoroalkyl or 
                                                polyfluoroalkyl 
                                                substances.

                                            ``(bb) Deadline.--

                                                    ``(AA) In 
                                                general.--Not later 
                                                than 1 year after the 
                                                date on which the 
                                                Administrator publishes 
                                                a proposed national 
                                                primary drinking water 
                                                regulation under item 
                                                (aa)(AA) and subject to 
                                                subitem (BB), the 
                                                Administrator shall 
                                                take final action on 
                                                the proposed national 
                                                primary drinking water 
                                                regulation.

                                                    ``(BB) Extension.--
                                                The Administrator, on 
                                                publication of notice 
                                                in the Federal 
                                                Register, may extend 
                                                the deadline under 
                                                subitem (AA) by not 
                                                more than 6 months.

                            ``(vii) Lifetime drinking water health 
                        advisory.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Subject to 
                                subclause (II), the Administrator shall 
                                publish a health advisory under 
                                paragraph (1)(F) for a perfluoroalkyl 
                                or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class 
                                of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                                substances not later than 1 year after 
                                the later of--
                                            ``(aa) the date on which 
                                        the Administrator finalizes a 
                                        toxicity value for the 
                                        perfluoroalkyl or 
                                        polyfluoroalkyl substance or 
                                        class of perfluoroalkyl or 
                                        polyfluoroalkyl substances; and
                                            ``(bb) the date on which 
                                        the Administrator validates an 
                                        effective quality control and 
                                        testing procedure for the 
                                        perfluoroalkyl or 
                                        polyfluoroalkyl substance or 
                                        class of perfluoroalkyl or 
                                        polyfluoroalkyl substance, if 
                                        such a procedure did not exist 
                                        on the date on which the 
                                        toxicity value described in 
                                        item (aa) was finalized.
                                    ``(II) Waiver.--The Administrator 
                                may waive the requirements of subclause 
                                (I) with respect to a perfluoroalkyl or 
                                polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
                                perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
                                substances if the Administrator 
                                determines that there is a substantial 
                                likelihood that the perfluoroalkyl or 
                                polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
                                perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                                substances will not occur in drinking 
                                water.''.

SEC. 6722. MONITORING AND DETECTION.

    (a) Monitoring Program for Unregulated Contaminants.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall include each 
        substance described in paragraph (2) in the fifth publication 
        of the list of unregulated contaminants to be monitored under 
        section 1445(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 
        U.S.C. 300j-4(a)(2)(B)(i)).
            (2) Substances described.--The substances referred to in 
        paragraph (1) are perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances 
        and classes of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances--
                    (A) for which a method to measure the level in 
                drinking water has been validated by the Administrator; 
                and
                    (B) that are not subject to a national primary 
                drinking water regulation under clause (i) or (vi)(II) 
                of subparagraph (D) of section 1412(b)(2) of the Safe 
                Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300g-1(b)(2)).
            (3) Exception.--The perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
        substances and classes of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
        substances included in the list of unregulated contaminants to 
        be monitored under section 1445(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Safe 
        Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-4(a)(2)(B)(i)) under 
        paragraph (1) shall not count towards the limit of 30 
        unregulated contaminants to be monitored by public water 
        systems under that section.
    (b) Applicability.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall--
                    (A) require public water systems serving more than 
                10,000 persons to monitor for the substances described 
                in subsection (a)(2);
                    (B) subject to paragraph (2) and the availability 
                of appropriations, require public water systems serving 
                not fewer than 3,300 and not more than 10,000 persons 
                to monitor for the substances described in subsection 
                (a)(2); and
                    (C) subject to paragraph (2) and the availability 
                of appropriations, ensure that only a representative 
                sample of public water systems serving fewer than 3,300 
                persons are required to monitor for the substances 
                described in subsection (a)(2).
            (2) Requirement.--If the Administrator determines that 
        there is not sufficient laboratory capacity to carry out the 
        monitoring required under subparagraphs (B) and (C) of 
        paragraph (1), the Administrator may waive the monitoring 
        requirements in those subparagraphs.
            (3) Funds.--The Administrator shall pay the reasonable cost 
        of such testing and laboratory analysis as is necessary to 
        carry out the monitoring required under paragraph (1) from--
                    (A) funds made available under subsection (a)(2)(H) 
                or (j)(5) of section 1445 of the Safe Drinking Water 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-4); or
                    (B) any other funds made available for that 
                purpose.

SEC. 6723. ENFORCEMENT.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administrator may 
not impose financial penalties for the violation of a national primary 
drinking water regulation (as defined in section 1401 of the Safe 
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f)) with respect to a perfluoroalkyl 
or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or 
polyfluoroalkyl substances for which a national primary drinking water 
regulation has been promulgated under clause (i) or (vi) of 
subparagraph (D) of section 1412(b)(2) of the Safe Drinking Water Act 
(42 U.S.C. 300g-1(b)(2)) earlier than the date that is 5 years after 
the date on which the Administrator promulgates the national primary 
drinking water regulation.

SEC. 6724. DRINKING WATER STATE REVOLVING FUNDS.

    Section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2), by adding at the end the 
        following:
                    ``(G) Emerging contaminants.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Notwithstanding any 
                        other provision of law and subject to clause 
                        (ii), amounts deposited under subsection (t) in 
                        a State loan fund established under this 
                        section may only be used to provide grants for 
                        the purpose of addressing emerging 
                        contaminants, with a focus on perfluoroalkyl 
                        and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
                            ``(ii) Requirements.--
                                    ``(I) Small and disadvantaged 
                                communities.--Not less than 25 percent 
                                of the amounts described in clause (i) 
                                shall be used to provide grants to--
                                            ``(aa) disadvantaged 
                                        communities (as defined in 
                                        subsection (d)(3)); or
                                            ``(bb) public water systems 
                                        serving fewer than 25,000 
                                        persons.
                                    ``(II) Priorities.--In selecting 
                                the recipient of a grant using amounts 
                                described in clause (i), a State shall 
                                use the priorities described in 
                                subsection (b)(3)(A).
                            ``(iii) No increased bonding authority.--
                        The amounts deposited in the State loan fund of 
                        a State under subsection (t) may not be used as 
                        a source of payment of, or security for 
                        (directly or indirectly), in whole or in part, 
                        any obligation the interest on which is exempt 
                        from the tax imposed under chapter 1 of the 
                        Internal Revenue Code of 1986.'';
            (2) in subsection (m)(1), in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A), by striking ``this section'' and inserting 
        ``this section, except for subsections (a)(2)(G) and (t)''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(t) Emerging Contaminants.--
            ``(1) In general.--Amounts made available under this 
        subsection shall be allotted to a State as if allotted under 
        subsection (a)(1)(D) as a capitalization grant, for deposit 
        into the State loan fund of the State, for the purposes 
        described in subsection (a)(2)(G).
            ``(2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $100,000,000 
        for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024, to remain available 
        until expended.''.

                       Subtitle C--PFAS Detection

SEC. 6731. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the United States Geological Survey.
            (2) Perfluorinated compound.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``perfluorinated 
                compound'' means a perfluoroalkyl substance or a 
                polyfluoroalkyl substance that is manmade with at least 
                1 fully fluorinated carbon atom.
                    (B) Definitions.--In this definition:
                            (i) Fully fluorinated carbon atom.--The 
                        term ``fully fluorinated carbon atom'' means a 
                        carbon atom on which all the hydrogen 
                        substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
                            (ii) Nonfluorinated carbon atom.--The term 
                        ``nonfluorinated carbon atom'' means a carbon 
                        atom on which no hydrogen substituents have 
                        been replaced by fluorine.
                            (iii) Partially fluorinated carbon atom.--
                        The term ``partially fluorinated carbon atom'' 
                        means a carbon atom on which some, but not all, 
                        of the hydrogen substituents have been replaced 
                        by fluorine.
                            (iv) Perfluoroalkyl substance.--The term 
                        ``perfluoroalkyl substance'' means a manmade 
                        chemical of which all of the carbon atoms are 
                        fully fluorinated carbon atoms.
                            (v) Polyfluoroalkyl substance.--The term 
                        ``polyfluoroalkyl substance'' means a manmade 
                        chemical containing a mix of fully fluorinated 
                        carbon atoms, partially fluorinated carbon 
                        atoms, and nonfluorinated carbon atoms.

SEC. 6732. PERFORMANCE STANDARD FOR THE DETECTION OF PERFLUORINATED 
              COMPOUNDS.

    (a) In General.--The Director shall establish a performance 
standard for the detection of perfluorinated compounds.
    (b) Emphasis.--
            (1) In general.--In developing the performance standard 
        under subsection (a), the Director shall emphasize the ability 
        to detect as many perfluorinated compounds present in the 
        environment as possible using analytical methods that--
                    (A) achieve limits of quantitation (as defined in 
                the document of the United States Geological Survey 
                entitled ``Analytical Methods for Chemical Analysis of 
                Geologic and Other Materials, U.S. Geological Survey'' 
                and dated 2002); and
                    (B) are as sensitive as is feasible and 
                practicable.
            (2) Requirement.--In developing the performance standard 
        under subsection (a), the Director may--
                    (A) develop quality assurance and quality control 
                measures to ensure accurate sampling and testing;
                    (B) develop a training program with respect to the 
                appropriate method of sample collection and analysis of 
                perfluorinated compounds; and
                    (C) coordinate with the Administrator, including, 
                if appropriate, coordinating to develop media-specific, 
                validated analytical methods to detect individual and 
                different perfluorinated compounds simultaneously.

SEC. 6733. NATIONWIDE SAMPLING.

    (a) In General.--The Director shall carry out a nationwide sampling 
to determine the concentration of perfluorinated compounds in 
estuaries, lakes, streams, springs, wells, wetlands, rivers, aquifers, 
and soil using the performance standard developed under section 
6732(a).
    (b) Requirements.--In carrying out the sampling under subsection 
(a), the Director shall--
            (1) first carry out the sampling at sources of drinking 
        water near locations with known or suspected releases of 
        perfluorinated compounds;
            (2) when carrying out sampling of sources of drinking water 
        under paragraph (1), carry out the sampling prior to any 
        treatment of the water;
            (3) survey for ecological exposure to perfluorinated 
        compounds, with a priority in determining direct human exposure 
        through drinking water; and
            (4) consult with--
                    (A) States to determine areas that are a priority 
                for sampling; and
                    (B) the Administrator--
                            (i) to enhance coverage of the sampling; 
                        and
                            (ii) to avoid unnecessary duplication.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the completion of the 
sampling under subsection (a), the Director shall prepare a report 
describing the results of the sampling and submit the report to--
            (1) the Committee on Environment and Public Works and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (3) the Senators of each State in which the Director 
        carried out the sampling; and
            (4) each Member of the House of Representatives that 
        represents a district in which the Director carried out the 
        sampling.

SEC. 6734. DATA USAGE.

    (a) In General.--The Director shall provide the sampling data 
collected under section 6733 to--
            (1) the Administrator; and
            (2) other Federal and State regulatory agencies on request.
    (b) Usage.--The sampling data provided under subsection (a) shall 
be used to inform and enhance assessments of exposure, likely health 
and environmental impacts, and remediation priorities.

SEC. 6735. COLLABORATION.

    In carrying out this subtitle, the Director shall collaborate 
with--
            (1) appropriate Federal and State regulators;
            (2) institutions of higher education;
            (3) research institutions; and
            (4) other expert stakeholders.

SEC. 6736. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director to carry 
out this subtitle--
            (1) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
            (2) $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

               Subtitle D--Safe Drinking Water Assistance

SEC. 6741. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Contaminant.--The term ``contaminant'' means any 
        physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or 
        matter in water.
            (2) Contaminant of emerging concern; emerging 
        contaminant.--The terms ``contaminant of emerging concern'' and 
        ``emerging contaminant'' mean a contaminant--
                    (A) for which the Administrator has not promulgated 
                a national primary drinking water regulation; and
                    (B) that may have an adverse effect on the health 
                of individuals.
            (3) Federal research strategy.--The term ``Federal research 
        strategy'' means the coordinated cross-agency plan for 
        addressing critical research gaps related to detecting, 
        assessing exposure to, and identifying the adverse health 
        effects of emerging contaminants in drinking water developed by 
        the Office of Science and Technology Policy in response to the 
        report of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate 
        accompanying S. 1662 of the 115th Congress (S. Rept. 115-139).
            (4) Technical assistance and support.--The term ``technical 
        assistance and support'' includes--
                    (A) assistance with--
                            (i) identifying appropriate analytical 
                        methods for the detection of contaminants;
                            (ii) understanding the strengths and 
                        limitations of the analytical methods described 
                        in clause (i);
                            (iii) troubleshooting the analytical 
                        methods described in clause (i);
                    (B) providing advice on laboratory certification 
                program elements;
                    (C) interpreting sample analysis results;
                    (D) providing training with respect to proper 
                analytical techniques;
                    (E) identifying appropriate technology for the 
                treatment of contaminants; and
                    (F) analyzing samples, if--
                            (i) the analysis cannot be otherwise 
                        obtained in a practicable manner otherwise; and
                            (ii) the capability and capacity to perform 
                        the analysis is available at a Federal 
                        facility.
            (5) Working group.--The term ``Working Group'' means the 
        Working Group established under section 6742(b)(1).

SEC. 6742. RESEARCH AND COORDINATION PLAN FOR ENHANCED RESPONSE ON 
              EMERGING CONTAMINANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall--
            (1) review Federal efforts--
                    (A) to identify, monitor, and assist in the 
                development of treatment methods for emerging 
                contaminants; and
                    (B) to assist States in responding to the human 
                health risks posed by contaminants of emerging concern; 
                and
            (2) in collaboration with owners and operators of public 
        water systems, States, and other interested stakeholders, 
        establish a strategic plan for improving the Federal efforts 
        referred to in paragraph (1).
    (b) Interagency Working Group on Emerging Contaminants.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator and the Secretary of 
        Health and Human Services shall jointly establish a Working 
        Group to coordinate the activities of the Federal Government to 
        identify and analyze the public health effects of drinking 
        water contaminants of emerging concern.
            (2) Membership.--The Working Group shall include 
        representatives of the following:
                    (A) The Environmental Protection Agency, appointed 
                by the Administrator.
                    (B) The following agencies, appointed by the 
                Secretary of Health and Human Services:
                            (i) The National Institutes of Health.
                            (ii) The Centers for Disease Control and 
                        Prevention.
                            (iii) The Agency for Toxic Substances and 
                        Disease Registry.
                    (C) The United States Geological Survey, appointed 
                by the Secretary of the Interior.
                    (D) Any other Federal agency the assistance of 
                which the Administrator determines to be necessary to 
                carry out this subsection, appointed by the head of the 
                respective agency.
            (3) Existing working group.--The Administrator may expand 
        or modify the duties of an existing working group to perform 
        the duties of the Working Group under this subsection.
    (c) National Emerging Contaminant Research Initiative.--
            (1) Federal research strategy.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
                Office of Science and Technology Policy (referred to in 
                this subsection as the ``Director'') shall coordinate 
                with the heads of the agencies described in 
                subparagraph (C) to establish a research initiative, to 
                be known as the ``National Emerging Contaminant 
                Research Initiative'', that shall--
                            (i) use the Federal research strategy to 
                        improve the identification, analysis, 
                        monitoring, and treatment methods of 
                        contaminants of emerging concern; and
                            (ii) develop any necessary program, policy, 
                        or budget to support the implementation of the 
                        Federal research strategy, including mechanisms 
                        for joint agency review of research proposals, 
                        for interagency cofunding of research 
                        activities, and for information sharing across 
                        agencies.
                    (B) Research on emerging contaminants.--In carrying 
                out subparagraph (A), the Director shall--
                            (i) take into consideration consensus 
                        conclusions from peer-reviewed, pertinent 
                        research on emerging contaminants; and
                            (ii) in consultation with the 
                        Administrator, identify priority emerging 
                        contaminants for research emphasis.
                    (C) Federal participation.--The agencies referred 
                to in subparagraph (A) include--
                            (i) the National Science Foundation;
                            (ii) the National Institutes of Health;
                            (iii) the Environmental Protection Agency;
                            (iv) the National Institute of Standards 
                        and Technology;
                            (v) the United States Geological Survey; 
                        and
                            (vi) any other Federal agency that 
                        contributes to research in water quality, 
                        environmental exposures, and public health, as 
                        determined by the Director.
                    (D) Participation from additional entities.--In 
                carrying out subparagraph (A), the Director shall 
                consult with nongovernmental organizations, State and 
                local governments, and science and research 
                institutions determined by the Director to have 
                scientific or material interest in the National 
                Emerging Contaminant Research Initiative.
            (2) Implementation of research recommendations.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date on which the Director and heads of the agencies 
                described in paragraph (1)(C) establish the National 
                Emerging Contaminant Research Initiative under 
                paragraph (1)(A), the head of each agency described in 
                paragraph (1)(C) shall--
                            (i) issue a solicitation for research 
                        proposals consistent with the Federal research 
                        strategy; and
                            (ii) make grants to applicants that submit 
                        research proposals selected by the National 
                        Emerging Contaminant Research Initiative in 
                        accordance with subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Selection of research proposals.--The National 
                Emerging Contaminant Research Initiative shall select 
                research proposals to receive grants under this 
                paragraph on the basis of merit, using criteria 
                identified by the Director, including the likelihood 
                that the proposed research will result in significant 
                progress toward achieving the objectives identified in 
                the Federal research strategy.
                    (C) Eligible entities.--Any entity or group of 2 or 
                more entities may submit to the head of each agency 
                described in paragraph (1)(C) a research proposal in 
                response to the solicitation for research proposals 
                described in subparagraph (A)(i), including--
                            (i) State and local agencies;
                            (ii) public institutions, including public 
                        institutions of higher education;
                            (iii) private corporations; and
                            (iv) nonprofit organizations.
    (d) Federal Technical Assistance and Support for States.--
            (1) Study.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall 
                conduct a study on actions the Administrator can take 
                to increase technical assistance and support for States 
                with respect to emerging contaminants in drinking water 
                samples.
                    (B) Contents of study.--In carrying out the study 
                described in subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall 
                identify--
                            (i) methods and effective treatment options 
                        to increase technical assistance and support 
                        with respect to emerging contaminants to 
                        States, including identifying opportunities for 
                        States to improve communication with various 
                        audiences about the risks associated with 
                        emerging contaminants;
                            (ii) means to facilitate access to 
                        qualified contract testing laboratory 
                        facilities that conduct analyses for emerging 
                        contaminants; and
                            (iii) actions to be carried out at existing 
                        Federal laboratory facilities, including the 
                        research facilities of the Administrator, to 
                        provide technical assistance and support for 
                        States that require testing facilities for 
                        emerging contaminants.
                    (C) Availability of analytical resources.--In 
                carrying out the study described in subparagraph (A), 
                the Administrator shall consider--
                            (i) the availability of--
                                    (I) Federal and non-Federal 
                                laboratory capacity; and
                                    (II) validated methods to detect 
                                and analyze contaminants; and
                            (ii) other factors determined to be 
                        appropriate by the Administrator.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to 
        Congress a report describing the results of the study described 
        in paragraph (1).
            (3) Program to provide federal assistance to states.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, based on the findings in 
                the report described in paragraph (2), the 
                Administrator shall develop a program to provide 
                technical assistance and support to eligible States for 
                the testing and analysis of emerging contaminants.
                    (B) Application.--
                            (i) In general.--To be eligible for 
                        technical assistance and support under this 
                        paragraph, a State shall submit to the 
                        Administrator an application at such time, in 
                        such manner, and containing such information as 
                        the Administrator may require.
                            (ii) Criteria.--The Administrator shall 
                        evaluate an application for technical 
                        assistance and support under this paragraph on 
                        the basis of merit using criteria identified by 
                        the Administrator, including--
                                    (I) the laboratory facilities 
                                available to the State;
                                    (II) the availability and 
                                applicability of existing analytical 
                                methodologies;
                                    (III) the potency and severity of 
                                the emerging contaminant, if known; and
                                    (IV) the prevalence and magnitude 
                                of the emerging contaminant.
                            (iii) Prioritization.--In selecting States 
                        to receive technical assistance and support 
                        under this paragraph, the Administrator--
                                    (I) shall give priority to States 
                                with affected areas primarily in 
                                financially distressed communities;
                                    (II) may--
                                            (aa) waive the application 
                                        process in an emergency 
                                        situation; and
                                            (bb) require an abbreviated 
                                        application process for the 
                                        continuation of work specified 
                                        in a previously approved 
                                        application that continues to 
                                        meet the criteria described in 
                                        clause (ii); and
                                    (III) shall consider the relative 
                                expertise and availability of--
                                            (aa) Federal and non-
                                        Federal laboratory capacity 
                                        available to the State;
                                            (bb) analytical resources 
                                        available to the State; and
                                            (cc) other types of 
                                        technical assistance available 
                                        to the State.
                    (C) Database of available resources.--The 
                Administrator shall establish and maintain a database 
                of resources available through the program developed 
                under subparagraph (A) to assist States with testing 
                for emerging contaminants that--
                            (i) is--
                                    (I) available to States and 
                                stakeholder groups determined by the 
                                Administrator to have scientific or 
                                material interest in emerging 
                                contaminants, including--
                                            (aa) drinking water and 
                                        wastewater utilities;
                                            (bb) laboratories;
                                            (cc) Federal and State 
                                        emergency responders;
                                            (dd) State primacy 
                                        agencies;
                                            (ee) public health 
                                        agencies; and
                                            (ff) water associations;
                                    (II) searchable; and
                                    (III) accessible through the 
                                website of the Administrator; and
                            (ii) includes a description of--
                                    (I) qualified contract testing 
                                laboratory facilities that conduct 
                                analyses for emerging contaminants; and
                                    (II) the resources available in 
                                Federal laboratory facilities to test 
                                for emerging contaminants.
                    (D) Water contaminant information tool.--The 
                Administrator shall integrate the database established 
                under subparagraph (C) into the Water Contaminant 
                Information Tool of the Environmental Protection 
                Agency.
            (4) Funding.--Of the amounts available to the 
        Administrator, the Administrator may use not more than 
        $15,000,000 in a fiscal year to carry out this subsection.
    (e) Report.--Not less frequently than once every 2 years until 
2029, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report that 
describes the progress made in carrying out this subtitle.
    (f) Effect.--Nothing in this section modifies any obligation of a 
State, local government, or Indian Tribe with respect to treatment 
methods for, or testing or monitoring of, drinking water.

                       Subtitle E--Miscellaneous

SEC. 6751. PFAS DATA CALL.

    Section 8(a) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 
2607(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) PFAS data.--Not later than January 1, 2023, the 
        Administrator shall promulgate a rule in accordance with this 
        subsection requiring each person who has manufactured a 
        chemical substance that is a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
        substance in any year since January 1, 2006, to submit to the 
        Administrator a report that includes, for each year since 
        January 1, 2006, the information described in paragraph (2).''.

SEC. 6752. SIGNIFICANT NEW USE RULE FOR LONG-CHAIN PFAS.

    Not later than June 22, 2020, the Administrator shall take final 
action on the significant new use rule proposed by the Administrator 
under the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) in the 
proposed rule entitled ``Long-Chain Perfluoroalkyl Carboxylate and 
Perfluoroalkyl Sulfonate Chemical Substances; Significant New Use 
Rule'' (80 Fed. Reg. 2885 (January 21, 2015)).

SEC. 6753. PFAS DESTRUCTION AND DISPOSAL GUIDANCE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall publish interim guidance on the 
destruction and disposal of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
substances and materials containing perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
substances, including--
            (1) aqueous film-forming foam;
            (2) soil and biosolids;
            (3) textiles treated with perfluoroalkyl and 
        polyfluoroalkyl substances; and
            (4) spent filters, membranes, and other waste from water 
        treatment.
    (b) Considerations; Inclusions.--The interim guidance under 
subsection (a) shall--
            (1) take into consideration--
                    (A) the potential for releases of perfluoroalkyl 
                and polyfluoroalkyl substances during destruction or 
                disposal, including through volatilization, air 
                dispersion, or leachate; and
                    (B) potentially vulnerable populations living near 
                likely destruction or disposal sites; and
            (2) provide guidance on testing and monitoring air, 
        effluent, and soil near potential destruction or disposal sites 
        for releases described in paragraph (1)(A).
    (c) Revisions.--The Administrator shall publish revisions to the 
interim guidance under subsection (a) as the Administrator determines 
to be appropriate, but not less frequently than once every 3 years.

SEC. 6754. PFAS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator, acting through the Assistant 
Administrator for the Office of Research and Development, shall--
            (1)(A) further examine the effects of perfluoroalkyl and 
        polyfluoroalkyl substances on human health and the environment; 
        and
            (B) make publicly available information relating to the 
        findings under subparagraph (A);
            (2) develop a process for prioritizing which perfluoroalkyl 
        and polyfluoroalkyl substances, or classes of perfluoroalkyl 
        and polyfluoroalkyl substances, should be subject to additional 
        research or regulatory efforts that is based on--
                    (A) the potential for human exposure to the 
                substances or classes of substances;
                    (B) the potential toxicity of the substances or 
                classes of substances; and
                    (C) information available about the substances or 
                classes of substances;
            (3) develop new tools to characterize and identify 
        perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances in the 
        environment, including in drinking water, wastewater, surface 
        water, groundwater, solids, and the air;
            (4) evaluate approaches for the remediation of 
        contamination by perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances 
        in the environment; and
            (5) develop and implement new tools and materials to 
        communicate with the public about perfluoroalkyl and 
        polyfluoroalkyl substances.
    (b) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Administrator to carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2020 through 2024.

TITLE LXVIII--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN TRAFFICKERS OF ILLICIT 
                           SYNTHETIC OPIOIDS

SEC. 6801. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Fentanyl Sanctions Act''.

SEC. 6802. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimate 
        that from September 2017 through September 2018 more than 
        48,200 people in the United States died from an opioid 
        overdose, with synthetic opioids (excluding methadone), 
        contributing to a record 31,900 overdose deaths. While drug 
        overdose death estimates from methadone, semi-synthetic 
        opioids, and heroin have decreased in recent months, overdose 
        deaths from synthetic opioids have continued to increase.
            (2) Congress and the President have taken a number of 
        actions to combat the demand for illicit opioids in the United 
        States, including enacting into law the SUPPORT for Patients 
        and Communities Act (Public Law 115-271; 132 Stat. 3894). While 
        new statutes and regulations have reduced the rate of opioid 
        prescriptions in recent years, fully addressing the United 
        States opioid crisis will involve dramatically restricting the 
        foreign supply of illicit opioids.
            (3) The People's Republic of China is the world's largest 
        producer of illicit fentanyl, fentanyl analogues, and their 
        immediate precursors. From the People's Republic of China, 
        those substances are shipped primarily through express 
        consignment carriers or international mail directly to the 
        United States, or, alternatively, shipped directly to 
        transnational criminal organizations in Mexico, Canada, and the 
        Caribbean.
            (4) The United States and the People's Republic of China, 
        Mexico, and Canada have made important strides in combating the 
        illicit flow of opioids through bilateral efforts of their 
        respective law enforcement agencies.
            (5) The objective of preventing the proliferation of 
        illicit opioids though existing multilateral and bilateral 
        initiatives requires additional efforts to deny illicit actors 
        the financial means to sustain their markets and distribution 
        networks.
            (6) The implementation on May 1, 2019, of the regulations 
        of the People's Republic of China to schedule all fentanyl 
        analogues as controlled substances is a major step in combating 
        global opioid trafficking and represents a major achievement in 
        United States-China law enforcement dialogues. However, that 
        step will effectively fulfill the commitment that President Xi 
        Jinping of the People's Republic of China made to President 
        Donald Trump at the Group of Twenty meeting in December 2018 
        only if the Government of the People's Republic of China 
        devotes sufficient resources to full implementation and strict 
        enforcement of the new regulations. The effective enforcement 
        of the new regulations should result in diminished trafficking 
        of illicit fentanyl originating from the People's Republic of 
        China into the United States, so it is in the interests of both 
        the United States and the People's Republic of China to support 
        the effective enforcement of the regulations.
            (7) While the Department of the Treasury used the Foreign 
        Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (21 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.) to 
        sanction the first synthetic opioid trafficking entity in April 
        2018, additional economic and financial sanctions policy tools 
        are needed to help combat the flow of synthetic opioids into 
        the United States.

SEC. 6803. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States should apply economic and other 
        financial sanctions to foreign traffickers of illicit opioids 
        to protect the national security, foreign policy, and economy 
        of the United States and the health of the people of the United 
        States;
            (2) it is imperative that the People's Republic of China 
        follow through on full implementation of the new regulations, 
        adopted May 1, 2019, to treat all fentanyl analogues as 
        controlled substances under the laws of the People's Republic 
        of China, including by devoting sufficient resources for 
        implementation and strict enforcement of the new regulations; 
        and
            (3) the effective enforcement of the new regulations should 
        result in diminished trafficking of illicit fentanyl 
        originating from the People's Republic of China into the United 
        States, so it is in the interests of both the United States and 
        the People's Republic of China to support full, effective, and 
        strict enforcement of the regulations.

SEC. 6804. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Alien; national; national of the united states.--The 
        terms ``alien'', ``national'', and ``national of the United 
        States'' have the meanings given those terms in section 101 of 
        the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees and leadership.--
        The term ``appropriate congressional committees and 
        leadership'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee 
                on Armed Services, the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
                and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, 
                the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
                Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, the Select 
                Committee on Intelligence, and the majority leader and 
                the minority leader of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee 
                on Armed Services, the Committee on Financial Services, 
                the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
                Homeland Security, the Committee on the Judiciary, the 
                Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the 
                Speaker and the minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (3) Controlled substance; listed chemical.--The terms 
        ``controlled substance'', ``listed chemical'', ``narcotic 
        drug'', and ``opioid'' have the meanings given those terms in 
        section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
            (4) Entity.--The term ``entity'' means a partnership, joint 
        venture, association, corporation, organization, network, 
        group, or subgroup, or any form of business collaboration.
            (5) Foreign opioid trafficker.--The term ``foreign opioid 
        trafficker'' means any foreign person that the President 
        determines plays a significant role in opioid trafficking.
            (6) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person''--
                    (A) means--
                            (i) any citizen or national of a foreign 
                        country; or
                            (ii) any entity not organized under the 
                        laws of the United States or a jurisdiction 
                        within the United States; and
                    (B) does not include the government of a foreign 
                country.
            (7) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to 
        conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
        actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
        circumstance, or the result.
            (8) Opioid trafficking.--The term ``opioid trafficking'' 
        means any illicit activity--
                    (A) to produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, or 
                knowingly finance or transport illicit synthetic 
                opioids, controlled substances that are synthetic 
                opioids, listed chemicals that are synthetic opioids, 
                or active pharmaceutical ingredients or chemicals that 
                are used in the production of controlled substances 
                that are synthetic opioids;
                    (B) to attempt to carry out an activity described 
                in subparagraph (A); or
                    (C) to assist, abet, conspire, or collude with 
                other persons to carry out such an activity.
            (9) Person.--The term ``person'' means an individual or 
        entity.
            (10) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' means--
                    (A) any citizen or national of the United States;
                    (B) any alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
                residence in the United States;
                    (C) any entity organized under the laws of the 
                United States or any jurisdiction within the United 
                States (including a foreign branch of such an entity); 
                or
                    (D) any person located in the United States.

    Subtitle A--Sanctions With Respect to Foreign Opioid Traffickers

SEC. 6811. IDENTIFICATION OF FOREIGN OPIOID TRAFFICKERS.

    (a) Public Report.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees and leadership, in 
        accordance with subsection (c), a report--
                    (A) identifying the foreign persons that the 
                President determines are foreign opioid traffickers;
                    (B) detailing progress the President has made in 
                implementing this subtitle; and
                    (C) providing an update on cooperative efforts with 
                the Governments of Mexico and the People's Republic of 
                China with respect to combating foreign opioid 
                traffickers.
            (2) Identification of additional persons.--If, at any time 
        after submitting a report required by paragraph (1) and before 
        the submission of the next such report, the President 
        determines that a foreign person not identified in the report 
        is a foreign opioid trafficker, the President shall submit to 
        the appropriate congressional committees and leadership an 
        additional report containing the information required by 
        paragraph (1) with respect to the foreign person.
            (3) Exclusion.--The President shall not be required to 
        include in a report under paragraph (1) or (2) any persons with 
        respect to which the United States has imposed sanctions before 
        the date of the report under this subtitle or any other 
        provision of law with respect to opioid trafficking.
            (4) Form of report.--
                    (A) In general.--Each report required by paragraph 
                (1) or (2) shall be submitted in unclassified form but 
                may include a classified annex.
                    (B) Availability to public.--The unclassified 
                portion of a report required by paragraph (1) or (2) 
                shall be made available to the public.
    (b) Classified Report.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees and leadership, in 
        accordance with subsection (c), a report, in classified form--
                    (A) describing in detail the status of sanctions 
                imposed under this subtitle, including the personnel 
                and resources directed toward the imposition of such 
                sanctions during the preceding fiscal year;
                    (B) providing background information with respect 
                to persons newly identified as foreign opioid 
                traffickers and their illicit activities;
                    (C) describing actions the President intends to 
                undertake or has undertaken to implement this subtitle; 
                and
                    (D) providing a strategy for identifying additional 
                foreign opioid traffickers.
            (2) Effect on other reporting requirements.--The report 
        required by paragraph (1) is in addition to the obligations of 
        the President to keep Congress fully and currently informed 
        pursuant to the provisions of the National Security Act of 1947 
        (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.).
    (c) Submission of Reports.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until the date 
that is 5 years after such date of enactment, the President shall 
submit the reports required by subsections (a) and (b) to the 
appropriate congressional committees and leadership.
    (d) Exclusion of Certain Information.--
            (1) Intelligence.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this section, a report required by subsection (a) or (b) shall 
        not disclose the identity of any person if the Director of 
        National Intelligence determines that such disclosure could 
        compromise an intelligence operation, activity, source, or 
        method of the United States.
            (2) Law enforcement.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
        of this section, a report required by subsection (a) or (b) 
        shall not disclose the identity of any person if the Attorney 
        General, in coordination, as appropriate, with the Director of 
        the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Administrator of the 
        Drug Enforcement Administration, the Secretary of the Treasury, 
        the Secretary of State, and the head of any other appropriate 
        Federal law enforcement agency, determines that such disclosure 
        could reasonably be expected--
                    (A) to compromise the identity of a confidential 
                source, including a State, local, or foreign agency or 
                authority or any private institution that furnished 
                information on a confidential basis;
                    (B) to jeopardize the integrity or success of an 
                ongoing criminal investigation or prosecution;
                    (C) to endanger the life or physical safety of any 
                person; or
                    (D) to cause substantial harm to physical property.
            (3) Notification required.--If the Director of National 
        Intelligence makes a determination under paragraph (1) or the 
        Attorney General makes a determination under paragraph (2), the 
        Director or the Attorney General, as the case may be, shall 
        notify the appropriate congressional committees and leadership 
        of the determination and the reasons for the determination.
            (4) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
        construed to authorize or compel the disclosure of information 
        determined by the President to be law enforcement information, 
        national security information, or other information the 
        disclosure of which is prohibited by any other provision of 
        law.
    (e) Provision of Information Required for Reports.--The Secretary 
of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Defense, the 
Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the 
Director of National Intelligence shall consult among themselves and 
provide to the President and the Director of the Office of National 
Drug Control Policy the appropriate and necessary information to enable 
the President to submit the reports required by subsection (a).

SEC. 6812. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON INTERNATIONAL OPIOID CONTROL REGIME.

    It is the sense of Congress that, in order to apply economic and 
other financial sanctions to foreign traffickers of illicit opioids to 
protect the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the 
United States--
            (1) the President should instruct the Secretary of State to 
        commence immediately diplomatic efforts, both in appropriate 
        international fora such as the United Nations, the Group of 
        Seven, the Group of Twenty, and trilaterally and bilaterally 
        with partners of the United States, to combat foreign opioid 
        trafficking, including by working to establish a multilateral 
        sanctions regime with respect to foreign opioid trafficking; 
        and
            (2) the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, should intensify efforts to maintain 
        and strengthen the coalition of countries formed to combat 
        foreign opioid trafficking.

SEC. 6813. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.

    The President shall impose five or more of the sanctions described 
in section 6814 with respect to each foreign person that is an entity, 
and four or more of such sanctions with respect to each foreign person 
that is an individual, that--
            (1) is identified as a foreign opioid trafficker in a 
        report submitted under section 6811(a); or
            (2) the President determines is owned, controlled, directed 
        by, knowingly supplying or sourcing precursors for, or acting 
        for or on behalf of, such a foreign opioid trafficker.

SEC. 6814. DESCRIPTION OF SANCTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The sanctions that may be imposed with respect to 
a foreign person under section 6813 are the following:
            (1) Loans from united states financial institutions.--The 
        United States Government may prohibit any United States 
        financial institution from making loans or providing credits to 
        the foreign person.
            (2) Prohibitions on financial institutions.--The following 
        prohibitions may be imposed with respect to a foreign person 
        that is a financial institution:
                    (A) Prohibition on designation as primary dealer.--
                Neither the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
                System nor the Federal Reserve Bank of New York may 
                designate, or permit the continuation of any prior 
                designation of, the financial institution as a primary 
                dealer in United States Government debt instruments.
                    (B) Prohibition on service as a repository of 
                government funds.--The financial institution may not 
                serve as agent of the United States Government or serve 
                as repository for United States Government funds.
        The imposition of either sanction under subparagraph (A) or (B) 
        shall be treated as one sanction for purposes of section 6813, 
        and the imposition of both such sanctions shall be treated as 2 
        sanctions for purposes of that section.
            (3) Procurement ban.--The United States Government may not 
        procure, or enter into any contract for the procurement of, any 
        goods or services from the foreign person.
            (4) Foreign exchange.--The President may, pursuant to such 
        regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
        transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the 
        jurisdiction of the United States and in which the foreign 
        person has any interest.
            (5) Banking transactions.--The President may, pursuant to 
        such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
        transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions 
        or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent 
        that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction 
        of the United States and involve any interest of the foreign 
        person.
            (6) Property transactions.--The President may, pursuant to 
        such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
        person from--
                    (A) acquiring, holding, withholding, using, 
                transferring, withdrawing, or transporting any property 
                that is subject to the jurisdiction of the United 
                States and with respect to which the foreign person has 
                any interest;
                    (B) dealing in or exercising any right, power, or 
                privilege with respect to such property; or
                    (C) conducting any transaction involving such 
                property.
            (7) Ban on investment in equity or debt of sanctioned 
        person.--The President may, pursuant to such regulations or 
        guidelines as the President may prescribe, prohibit any United 
        States person from investing in or purchasing significant 
        amounts of equity or debt instruments of the foreign person.
            (8) Exclusion of corporate officers.--The President may 
        direct the Secretary of State to deny a visa to, and the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security to exclude from the United 
        States, any alien that the President determines is a corporate 
        officer or principal of, or a shareholder with a controlling 
        interest in, the foreign person.
            (9) Sanctions on principal executive officers.--The 
        President may impose on the principal executive officer or 
        officers of the foreign person, or on individuals performing 
        similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer 
        or officers, any of the sanctions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (8) that are applicable.
    (b) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to violate, 
conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any regulation, license, 
or order issued to carry out subsection (a) shall be subject to the 
penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the 
same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in 
subsection (a) of that section.
    (c) Exceptions.--
            (1) Intelligence and law enforcement activities.--Sanctions 
        under this section shall not apply with respect to--
                    (A) any activity subject to the reporting 
                requirements under title V of the National Security Act 
                of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.); or
                    (B) any authorized intelligence and law enforcement 
                activities of the United States.
            (2) Exception to comply with united nations headquarters 
        agreement.--Sanctions under subsection (a)(8) shall not apply 
        to an alien if admitting the alien into the United States is 
        necessary to permit the United States to comply with the 
        Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, 
        signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force 
        November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United 
        States, the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna 
        April 24, 1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967, or other 
        applicable international obligations.
    (d) Implementation; Regulatory Authority.--
            (1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
        authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 
        1704) to carry out this section.
            (2) Regulatory authority.--The President shall issue such 
        regulations, licenses, and orders as are necessary to carry out 
        this section.

SEC. 6815. WAIVERS.

    (a) Waiver for State-Owned Financial Institutions in Countries That 
Cooperate in Multilateral Anti-Trafficking Efforts.--
            (1) In general.--The President may waive for a period of 
        not more than 12 months the application of sanctions under this 
        subtitle with respect to a financial institution that is owned 
        or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a foreign government 
        or any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of a 
        foreign government, if, not less than 15 days before the waiver 
        is to take effect, the President certifies to the appropriate 
        congressional committees and leadership that the foreign 
        government is closely cooperating with the United States in 
        efforts to prevent opioid trafficking.
            (2) Certification.--The President may certify under 
        paragraph (1) that a foreign government is closely cooperating 
        with the United States in efforts to prevent opioid trafficking 
        if that government is--
                    (A) implementing domestic laws to schedule all 
                fentanyl analogues as controlled substances; and
                    (B) doing two or more of the following:
                            (i) Implementing substantial improvements 
                        in regulations involving the chemical and 
                        pharmaceutical production and export of illicit 
                        opioids.
                            (ii) Implementing substantial improvements 
                        in judicial regulations to combat transnational 
                        criminal organizations that traffic opioids.
                            (iii) Increasing efforts to prosecute 
                        foreign opioid traffickers.
                            (iv) Increasing intelligence sharing and 
                        law enforcement cooperation with the United 
                        States with respect to opioid trafficking.
            (3) Subsequent renewal of waiver.--The President may renew 
        a waiver under paragraph (1) for subsequent periods of not more 
        than 12 months each if, not less than 15 days before the 
        renewal is to take effect, the Director of National 
        Intelligence certifies to the appropriate congressional 
        committees and leadership that the government of the country to 
        which the waiver applies has effectively implemented and is 
        effectively enforcing the measures that formed the basis for 
        the certification under paragraph (2).
    (b) Waivers for National Security and Access to Prescription 
Medications.--
            (1) In general.--The President may waive the application of 
        sanctions under this subtitle if the President determines that 
        the application of such sanctions would harm--
                    (A) the national security interests of the United 
                States; or
                    (B) subject to paragraph (2), the access of United 
                States persons to prescription medications.
            (2) Monitoring.--The President shall establish a monitoring 
        program to verify that a person that receives a waiver under 
        paragraph (1)(B) is not trafficking illicit opioids.
            (3) Notification.--Not later than 15 days after making a 
        determination under paragraph (1), the President shall notify 
        the appropriate congressional committees and leadership of the 
        determination and the reasons for the determination.
    (c) Humanitarian Waiver.--The President may waive, for renewable 
periods of 180 days, the application of the sanctions under this 
subtitle if the President certifies to the appropriate congressional 
committees and leadership that the waiver is necessary for the 
provision of humanitarian assistance.

SEC. 6816. PROCEDURES FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.

    (a) In General.--If a finding under this subtitle, or a 
prohibition, condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any such 
finding, is based on classified information (as defined in section 1(a) 
of the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)) and a 
court reviews the finding or the imposition of the prohibition, 
condition, or penalty, the President may submit such information to the 
court ex parte and in camera.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to confer or imply any right to judicial review of any 
finding under this subtitle, or any prohibition, condition, or penalty 
imposed as a result of any such finding.

SEC. 6817. BRIEFINGS ON IMPLEMENTATION.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of the 
Fentanyl Sanctions Act, and every 180 days thereafter until the date 
that is 5 years after such date of enactment, the President, acting 
through the Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of 
the Treasury, shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees 
and leadership a comprehensive briefing on efforts to implement this 
subtitle.

SEC. 6818. INCLUSION OF ADDITIONAL MATERIAL IN INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS 
              CONTROL STRATEGY REPORT.

    Section 489(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2291(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9)(A) An assessment conducted by the Secretary of State, 
        in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, of the 
        extent to which any diplomatic efforts described in section 
        6812 of the Fentanyl Sanctions Act have been successful.
            ``(B) Each assessment required by subparagraph (A) shall 
        include an identification of--
                    ``(i) the countries the governments of which have 
                agreed to undertake measures to apply economic or other 
                financial sanctions to foreign traffickers of illicit 
                opioids and a description of those measures; and
                    ``(ii) the countries the governments of which have 
                not agreed to measures described in clause (i), and, 
                with respect to those countries, other measures the 
                Secretary of State recommends that the United States 
                take to apply economic and other financial sanctions to 
                foreign traffickers of illicit opioids.''.

    Subtitle B--Commission on Combating Synthetic Opioid Trafficking

SEC. 6821. COMMISSION ON COMBATING SYNTHETIC OPIOID TRAFFICKING.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established a commission to 
        develop a consensus on a strategic approach to combating the 
        flow of synthetic opioids into the United States.
            (2) Designation.--The commission established under 
        paragraph (1) shall be known as the ``Commission on Synthetic 
        Opioid Trafficking'' (in this section referred to as the 
        ``Commission'').
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Composition.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Commission shall be composed of the following members:
                            (i) The Administrator of the Drug 
                        Enforcement Administration.
                            (ii) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
                            (iii) The Secretary of Defense.
                            (iv) The Secretary of the Treasury.
                            (v) The Secretary of State.
                            (vi) Two members appointed by the majority 
                        leader of the Senate, one of whom shall be a 
                        Member of the Senate and one of whom shall not 
                        be.
                            (vii) Two members appointed by the minority 
                        leader of the Senate, one of whom shall be a 
                        Member of the Senate and one of whom shall not 
                        be.
                            (viii) Two members appointed by the Speaker 
                        of the House of Representatives, one of whom 
                        shall be a Member of the House of 
                        Representatives and one of whom shall not be.
                            (ix) Two members appointed by the minority 
                        leader of the House of Representatives, one of 
                        whom shall be a Member of the House of 
                        Representatives and one of whom shall not be.
                    (B)(i) The members of the Commission who are not 
                Members of Congress and who are appointed under clauses 
                (vi) through (ix) of subparagraph (A) shall be 
                individuals who are nationally recognized for 
                expertise, knowledge, or experience in--
                            (I) transnational criminal organizations 
                        conducting synthetic opioid trafficking;
                            (II) the production, manufacturing, 
                        distribution, sale, or transportation of 
                        synthetic opioids; or
                            (III) relations between--
                                    (aa) the United States; and
                                    (bb) the People's Republic of 
                                China, Mexico, or any other country of 
                                concern with respect to trafficking in 
                                synthetic opioids.
                    (ii) An official who appoints members of the 
                Commission may not appoint an individual as a member of 
                the Commission if the individual possesses any personal 
                or financial interest in the discharge of any of the 
                duties of the Commission.
                    (iii)(I) All members of the Commission described in 
                clause (i) shall possess an appropriate security 
                clearance in accordance with applicable provisions of 
                law concerning the handling of classified information.
                    (II) For the purpose of facilitating the activities 
                of the Commission, the Director of National 
                Intelligence shall expedite to the fullest degree 
                possible the processing of security clearances that are 
                necessary for members of the Commission.
            (2) Co-chairs.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission shall have 2 co-
                chairs, selected from among the members of the 
                Commission, one of whom shall be a member of the 
                majority party and one of whom shall be a member of the 
                minority party.
                    (B) Selection.--The individuals who serve as the 
                co-chairs of the Commission shall be jointly agreed 
                upon by the President, the majority leader of the 
                Senate, the minority leader of the Senate, the Speaker 
                of the House of Representatives, and the minority 
                leader of the House of Representatives.
    (c) Duties.--The duties of the Commission are as follows:
            (1) To define the core objectives and priorities of the 
        strategic approach described in subsection (a)(1).
            (2) To weigh the costs and benefits of various strategic 
        options to combat the flow of synthetic opioids from the 
        People's Republic of China, Mexico, and other countries.
            (3) To evaluate whether the options described in paragraph 
        (2) are exclusive or complementary, the best means for 
        executing such options, and how the United States should 
        incorporate and implement such options within the strategic 
        approach described in subsection (a)(1).
            (4) To review and make determinations on the difficult 
        choices present within such options, among them what norms-
        based regimes the United States should seek to establish to 
        encourage the effective regulation of dangerous synthetic 
        opioids.
            (5) To report on efforts by actors in the People's Republic 
        of China to subvert United States laws and to supply illicit 
        synthetic opioids to persons in the United States, including 
        up-to-date estimates of the scale of illicit synthetic opioids 
        flows from the People's Republic of China.
            (6) To report on the deficiencies in the regulation of 
        pharmaceutical and chemical production of controlled substances 
        and export controls with respect to such substances in the 
        People's Republic of China and other countries that allow 
        opioid traffickers to subvert such regulations and controls to 
        traffic illicit opioids into the United States.
            (7) To report on the scale of contaminated or counterfeit 
        drugs originating from the People's Republic of China and 
        India.
            (8) To report on how the United States could work more 
        effectively with provincial and local officials in the People's 
        Republic of China and other countries to combat the illicit 
        production of synthetic opioids.
            (9) In weighing the options for defending the United States 
        against the dangers of trafficking in synthetic opioids, to 
        consider possible structures and authorities that need to be 
        established, revised, or augmented within the Federal 
        Government.
    (d) Functioning of Commission.--The provisions of subsections (c), 
(d), (e), (g), (h), (i), and (m) of section 1652 of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 
115-232) shall apply to the Commission to the same extent and in the 
same manner as such provisions apply to the commission established 
under that section, except that--
            (1) subsection (c)(1) of that section shall be applied and 
        administered by substituting ``30 days'' for ``45 days'';
            (2) subsection (g)(4)(A) of that section shall be applied 
        and administered by inserting ``and the Attorney General'' 
        after ``Secretary of Defense''; and
            (3) subsections (h)(2)(A) and (i)(1)(A) of that section 
        shall be applied and administered by substituting ``level V of 
        the Executive Schedule under section 5316'' for ``level IV of 
        the Executive Schedule under section 5315''.
    (e) Treatment of Information Relating to National Security.--
            (1) Responsibility of director of national intelligence.--
        The Director of National Intelligence shall assume 
        responsibility for the handling and disposition of any 
        information related to the national security of the United 
        States that is received, considered, or used by the Commission 
        under this section.
            (2) Information provided by congress.--Any information 
        related to the national security of the United States that is 
        provided to the Commission by the appropriate congressional 
        committees and leadership may not be further provided or 
        released without the approval of the chairperson of the 
        committee, or the Member of Congress, as the case may be, that 
        provided the information to the Commission.
            (3) Access after termination of commission.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, after the 
        termination of the Commission under subsection (h), only the 
        members and designated staff of the appropriate congressional 
        committees and leadership, the Director of National 
        Intelligence (and the designees of the Director), and such 
        other officials of the executive branch as the President may 
        designate shall have access to information related to the 
        national security of the United States that is received, 
        considered, or used by the Commission.
    (f) Reports.--The Commission shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees and leadership--
            (1) not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, an initial report on the activities and 
        recommendations of the Commission under this section; and
            (2) not later than 270 days after the submission of the 
        initial report under paragraph (1), a final report on the 
        activities and recommendations of the Commission under this 
        section.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2023 to 
carry out this section.
    (h) Termination.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission, and all the authorities of 
        this section, shall terminate at the end of the 120-day period 
        beginning on the date on which the final report required by 
        subsection (f)(2) is submitted to the appropriate congressional 
        committees and leadership.
            (2) Winding up of affairs.--The Commission may use the 120-
        day period described in paragraph (1) for the purposes of 
        concluding its activities, including providing testimony to 
        Congress concerning the final report required by subsection 
        (f)(2) and disseminating the report.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 6831. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM ON USE OF 
              INTELLIGENCE RESOURCES IN EFFORTS TO SANCTION FOREIGN 
              OPIOID TRAFFICKERS.

    (a) Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence 
        shall, with the concurrence of the Director of the Office of 
        National Drug Control Policy, carry out a program to allocate 
        and enhance use of resources of the intelligence community, 
        including intelligence collection and analysis, to assist the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the 
        Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration in efforts 
        to identify and impose sanctions with respect to foreign opioid 
        traffickers under subtitle A.
            (2) Focus on illicit finance.--To the extent practicable, 
        efforts described in paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) take into account specific illicit finance 
                risks related to narcotics trafficking; and
                    (B) be developed in consultation with the 
                Undersecretary of the Treasury for Terrorism and 
                Financial Crimes, appropriate officials of the Office 
                of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of the 
                Treasury, the Director of the Financial Crimes 
                Enforcement Network, and appropriate Federal law 
                enforcement agencies.
    (b) Review of Counternarcotics Efforts of the Intelligence 
Community.--The Director of National Intelligence shall, in 
coordination with the Director of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy, carry out a comprehensive review of the current intelligence 
collection priorities of the intelligence community for 
counternarcotics purposes in order to identify whether such priorities 
are appropriate and sufficient in light of the number of lives lost in 
the United States each year due to use of illegal drugs.
    (c) Reports.--
            (1) Quarterly reports on program.--Not later than 90 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days 
        thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence and the 
        Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy shall 
        jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees and 
        leadership a report on the status and accomplishments of the 
        program required by subsection (a) during the 90-day period 
        ending on the date of the report. The first report under this 
        paragraph shall also include a description of the amount of 
        funds devoted by the intelligence community to the efforts 
        described in subsection (a) during each of fiscal years 2017 
        and 2018.
            (2) Report on review.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence and the Director of the Office of National Drug 
        Control Policy shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees and leadership a comprehensive 
        description of the results of the review required by subsection 
        (b), including whether the priorities described in that 
        subsection are appropriate and sufficient in light of the 
        number of lives lost in the United States each year due to use 
        of illegal drugs. If the report concludes that such priorities 
        are not so appropriate and sufficient, the report shall also 
        include a description of the actions to be taken to modify such 
        priorities in order to assure than such priorities are so 
        appropriate and sufficient.
    (d) Intelligence Community Defined.--In this section, the term 
``intelligence community'' has the meaning given that term in section 
3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).

SEC. 6832. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FUNDING.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Defense to carry out the operations 
and activities described in subsection (b) $25,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2020 through 2025.
    (b) Operations and Activities.--The operations and activities 
described in this subsection are the operations and activities of the 
Department of Defense in support of any other department or agency of 
the United States Government solely for purposes of carrying out this 
title.
    (c) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts made available under 
subsection (a) shall supplement and not supplant other amounts 
available to carry out the operations and activities described in 
subsection (b).
    (d) Notification Requirement.--Amounts authorized to be 
appropriated by subsection (a) may not be obligated until 15 days after 
the date on which the President notifies the appropriate committees of 
Congress of the President's intention to obligate such funds.
    (e) Concurrence of Secretary of State.--Operations and activities 
described in subsection (b) carried out with foreign persons shall be 
conducted with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.

SEC. 6833. DEPARTMENT OF STATE FUNDING.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of State to carry out the operations and 
activities described in subsection (b) $25,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2020 through 2025.
    (b) Operations and Activities Described.--The operations and 
activities described in this subsection are the operations and 
activities of the Department of State in carrying out this title.
    (c) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated 
by subsection (a) shall supplement and not supplant other amounts 
available to carry out the operations and activities described in 
subsection (b).
    (d) Notification Requirement.--Amounts authorized to be 
appropriated by subsection (a) may not be obligated until 15 days after 
the date on which the President notifies the appropriate committees of 
Congress of the President's intention to obligate such funds.

SEC. 6834. DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY FUNDING.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Treasury to carry out the 
operations and activities described in subsection (b) $25,000,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2020 through 2025.
    (b) Operations and Activities Described.--The operations and 
activities described in this subsection are the operations and 
activities of the Department of the Treasury in carrying out this 
title.
    (c) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated 
by subsection (a) shall supplement and not supplant other amounts 
available to carry out the operations and activities described in 
subsection (b).
    (d) Notification Requirement.--Amounts authorized to be 
appropriated by subsection (a) may not be obligated until 15 days after 
the date on which the President notifies the appropriate committees of 
Congress of the President's intention to obligate such funds.

SEC. 6835. TERMINATION.

    The provisions of this title, and any sanctions imposed pursuant to 
this title, shall terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 6836. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS.

    (a) In General.--The authorities and requirements to impose 
sanctions under this title shall not include the authority or a 
requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
    (b) Good Defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means any 
article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured 
product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding 
technical data.

SEC. 6837. APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS DEFINED.

    In this subtitle, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

 TITLE LXIX--OTTO WARMBIER BANKING RESTRICTIONS INVOLVING NORTH KOREA 
                              ACT OF 2019

SEC. 6901. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Otto Warmbier Banking Restrictions 
Involving North Korea Act of 2019''.

           Subtitle A--Sanctions With Respect to North Korea

SEC. 6911. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Since 2006, the United Nations Security Council has 
        adopted 10 resolutions imposing sanctions against North Korea 
        under chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, which--
                    (A) prohibit the use, development, and 
                proliferation of weapons of mass destruction by North 
                Korea;
                    (B) prohibit the supply, sale, or transfer of arms 
                and related materiel to or from North Korea;
                    (C) prohibit the transfer of luxury goods to North 
                Korea;
                    (D) restrict access by North Korea to financial 
                services that could contribute to nuclear, missile, or 
                other programs related to the development of weapons of 
                mass destruction;
                    (E) restrict North Korean shipping, including the 
                registration, reflagging, or insuring of North Korean 
                ships;
                    (F) prohibit, with limited exceptions, North Korean 
                exports of coal, precious metals, iron, vanadium, and 
                rare earth minerals;
                    (G) prohibit the transfer to North Korea of rocket, 
                aviation, or jet fuel, as well as gasoline, 
                condensates, and natural gas liquids;
                    (H) prohibit new work authorization for North 
                Korean laborers and require the repatriation of all 
                North Korean laborers by December 2019;
                    (I) prohibit exports of North Korean food and 
                agricultural products, including seafood;
                    (J) prohibit joint ventures or cooperative 
                commercial entities or expanding joint ventures with 
                North Korea;
                    (K) prohibit exports of North Korean textiles;
                    (L) require member countries of the United Nations 
                to seize, inspect, and impound any ship in its 
                jurisdiction that is suspected of violating Security 
                Council resolutions with respect to North Korea and to 
                interdict and inspect all cargo heading to or from 
                North Korea by land, sea, or air;
                    (M) limit the transfer to North Korea of refined 
                petroleum products and crude oil;
                    (N) ban the sale or transfer to North Korea of 
                industrial machinery, transportation vehicles, 
                electronics, iron, steel, and other metals;
                    (O) reduce North Korean diplomatic staff numbers in 
                member countries of the United Nations and expel any 
                North Korean diplomats found to be working on behalf of 
                a person subject to sanctions or assisting in sanctions 
                evasion;
                    (P) limit North Korean diplomatic missions abroad 
                with respect to staff size and access to banking 
                privileges and prohibit commerce from being conducted 
                out of North Korean consular or diplomatic offices;
                    (Q) require member states of the United Nations to 
                close representative offices, subsidiaries, and bank 
                accounts in North Korea;
                    (R) prohibit countries from providing or receiving 
                military training to or from North Korea or hosting 
                North Koreans for specialized teaching or training that 
                could contribute to the programs of North Korea related 
                to the development of weapons of mass destruction;
                    (S) ban countries from granting landing and flyover 
                rights to North Korean aircraft; and
                    (T) prohibit trade in statuary of North Korean 
                origin.
            (2) The Government of North Korea has threatened to carry 
        out nuclear attacks against the United States, South Korea, and 
        Japan.
            (3) The Government of North Korea tested its sixth and 
        largest nuclear device on September 3, 2017.
            (4) According to a report by the International Atomic 
        Energy Agency released in August 2018, ``The continuation and 
        further development of the DPRK's nuclear programme and related 
        statements by the DPRK are a cause for grave concern. The 
        DPRK's nuclear activities, including those in relation to the 
        Yongbyon Experimental Nuclear Power Plant (5 MW(e)) reactor, 
        the use of the building which houses the reported centrifuge 
        enrichment facility and the construction at the light water 
        reactor, as well as the DPRK's sixth nuclear test, are clear 
        violations of relevant UN Security Council resolutions, 
        including resolution 2375 (2017) and are deeply regrettable.''.
            (5) In July 2018, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo testified 
        to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that North 
        Korea ``continue[s] to produce fissile material'' despite 
        public pledges by North Korean leader Kim Jong-un to 
        denuclearize.
            (6) The 2019 Missile Defense Review conducted by the 
        Department of Defense states that North Korea ``continues to 
        pose an extraordinary threat and the United States must remain 
        vigilant. In the past, North Korea frequently issued explicit 
        nuclear missile threats against the United States and allies, 
        all the while working aggressively to field the capability to 
        strike the U.S. homeland with nuclear-armed ballistic missiles. 
        Over the past decade, it has invested considerable resources in 
        its nuclear and ballistic missile programs, and undertaken 
        extensive nuclear and missile testing in order to realize the 
        capability to threaten the U.S. homeland with missile attack. 
        As a result, North Korea has neared the time when it could 
        credibly do so.''.
            (7) Financial transactions and investments that provide 
        financial resources to the Government of North Korea, and that 
        fail to incorporate adequate safeguards against the misuse of 
        those financial resources, pose an undue risk of contributing 
        to--
                    (A) weapons of mass destruction programs of that 
                Government; and
                    (B) efforts to evade restrictions required by the 
                United Nations Security Council on imports or exports 
                of arms and related materiel, services, or technology 
                by that Government.
            (8) The Federal Bureau of Investigation has determined that 
        the Government of North Korea was responsible for cyberattacks 
        against entities in the United States, South Korea, and around 
        the world.
            (9) In November 2017, President Donald Trump designated the 
        government of North Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism 
        pursuant to authorities under the Export Administration Act of 
        1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2401 et seq.), as continued in effect at 
        the time under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
        (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)), the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.), and the Arms Export Control Act (22 
        U.S.C. 2751 et seq.);
            (10) On February 22, 2018, the Secretary of State 
        determined that the Government of North Korea was responsible 
        for the lethal nerve agent attack in 2017 on Kim Jong Nam, the 
        half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, in Malaysia, 
        triggering sanctions required under the Chemical and Biological 
        Weapons Control and Warfare Elimination Act of 1991 (22 U.S.C. 
        5601 et seq.).
            (11) The strict enforcement of sanctions is essential to 
        the efforts of the international community to achieve the 
        peaceful, complete, verifiable, and irreversible dismantlement 
        of weapons of mass destruction programs of the Government of 
        North Korea.

SEC. 6912. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States is committed to working with its 
        allies and partners to halt the nuclear and ballistic missile 
        programs of North Korea through a policy of maximum pressure 
        and diplomatic engagement;
            (2) the imposition of sanctions, including those under this 
        title, should not be construed to limit the authority of the 
        President to fully engage in diplomatic negotiations to further 
        the policy objective described in paragraph (1);
            (3) the successful use of sanctions to halt the nuclear and 
        ballistic missile programs of North Korea is part of a broader 
        diplomatic and economic strategy that relies on effective 
        coordination among relevant Federal agencies and officials, as 
        well as with international partners of the United States; and
            (4) the coordination described in paragraph (3) should 
        include proper vetting of external messaging and communications 
        from all parts of the Executive branch to ensure that those 
        communications are an intentional component of and aligned with 
        the strategy of the United States with respect to North Korea.

SEC. 6913. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle, the terms ``applicable Executive order'', 
``applicable United Nations Security Council resolution'', 
``appropriate congressional committees'', ``Government of North 
Korea'', ``North Korea'', and ``North Korean financial institution'' 
have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of the North Korea 
Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9202).

           PART I--EXPANSION OF SANCTIONS AND RELATED MATTERS

SEC. 6921. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
              THAT PROVIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES TO CERTAIN SANCTIONED 
              PERSONS.

    (a) In General.--Title II of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy 
Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9221 et seq.) is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 201A the following:

``SEC. 201B. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
              THAT PROVIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES TO CERTAIN SANCTIONED 
              PERSONS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall impose one 
or more of the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to a 
foreign financial institution that the Secretary determines, on or 
after the date that is 90 days after the date of the enactment of the 
Otto Warmbier Banking Restrictions Involving North Korea Act of 2019, 
knowingly provides significant financial services to any person 
designated for the imposition of sanctions under--
            ``(1) subsection (a) or (b) of section 104;
            ``(2) an applicable Executive order; or
            ``(3) an applicable United Nations Security Council 
        resolution.
    ``(b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions that may be imposed with 
respect to a foreign financial institution subject to subsection (a) 
are the following:
            ``(1) Asset blocking.--The Secretary may block and 
        prohibit, pursuant to the International Emergency Economic 
        Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all 
        property and interests in property of the foreign financial 
        institution if such property and interests in property are in 
        the United States, come within the United States, or are or 
        come within the possession or control of a United States 
        person.
            ``(2) Restrictions on correspondent and payable-through 
        accounts.--The Secretary may prohibit, or impose strict 
        conditions on, the opening or maintaining in the United States 
        of a correspondent account or a payable-through account by the 
        foreign financial institution.
    ``(c) Implementation; Penalties.--
            ``(1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
        authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 
        1704) to carry out this section.
            ``(2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
        violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this 
        section or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry 
        out this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in 
        subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same 
        extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in 
        subsection (a) of that section.
    ``(d) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of the Otto Warmbier Banking Restrictions Involving North 
Korea Act of 2019, the President shall, as appropriate, prescribe 
regulations to carry out this section.
    ``(e) Exception Relating to Importation of Goods.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 404(b) or any 
        provision of this section, the authorities and requirements to 
        impose sanctions under this section shall not include the 
        authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the 
        importation of goods.
            ``(2) Good defined.--In this subsection, the term `good' 
        means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, 
        supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test 
        equipment, and excluding technical data.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Account; correspondent account; payable-through 
        account.--The terms `account', `correspondent account', and 
        `payable-through account' have the meanings given those terms 
        in section 5318A of title 31, United States Code.
            ``(2) Financial institution.--The term `financial 
        institution' means a financial institution specified in 
        subparagraph (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), (I), (J), 
        (M), or (Y) of section 5312(a)(2) of title 31, United States 
        Code.
            ``(3) Foreign financial institution.--The term `foreign 
        financial institution' shall have the meaning of that term as 
        determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.
            ``(4) Knowingly.--The term `knowingly', with respect to 
        conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
        actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
        circumstance, or the result.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the North Korea 
Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 201A the following:

``201B. Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions that 
                            provide financial services to certain 
                            sanctioned persons.''.

SEC. 6922. EXTENSION OF APPLICABILITY PERIOD OF PROLIFERATION 
              PREVENTION SANCTIONS.

    Section 203(b)(2) of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy 
Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9223(b)(2)) is amended by striking 
``2 years'' and inserting ``5 years''.

SEC. 6923. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IDENTIFICATION AND BLOCKING OF PROPERTY 
              OF NORTH KOREAN OFFICIALS.

    It is the sense of Congress that the President should--
            (1) encourage international collaboration through the 
        Financial Action Task Force and its global network to utilize 
        its standards and apply means at its disposal to counter the 
        money laundering, terrorist financing, and proliferation 
        financing threats emanating from North Korea; and
            (2) prioritize multilateral efforts to identify and block--
                    (A) any property owned or controlled by a North 
                Korean official; and
                    (B) any significant proceeds of kleptocracy by the 
                Government of North Korea or a North Korean official.

SEC. 6924. MODIFICATION OF REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF UNITED NATIONS 
              SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS BY OTHER GOVERNMENTS.

    Section 317 of the Korean Interdiction and Modernization of 
Sanctions Act (title III of Public Law 115-44; 131 Stat. 950) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``Not later than 180 days after the date of 
                the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 
                5 years,'' and inserting ``Not later than 180 days 
                after the date of the enactment of the Otto Warmbier 
                Banking Restrictions Involving North Korea Act of 2019, 
                and annually thereafter for 5 years,'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``; or'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (C) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph 
                (8); and
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) prohibit, in the territories of such countries or by 
        persons subject to the jurisdiction of such governments, the 
        opening of new joint ventures or cooperative entities with 
        North Korean persons or the expansion of existing joint 
        ventures through additional investments, whether or not for or 
        on behalf of the Government of North Korea, unless such joint 
        ventures or cooperative entities have been approved by the 
        Committee of the United Nations Security Council established by 
        United Nations Security Council Resolution 1718 (2006);
            ``(5) prohibit the unauthorized clearing of funds by North 
        Korean financial institutions through financial institutions 
        subject to the jurisdiction of such governments;
            ``(6) prohibit the unauthorized conduct of commercial trade 
        with North Korea that is prohibited under applicable United 
        Nations Security Council resolutions;
            ``(7) prevent the provision of financial services to North 
        Korean persons or the transfer of financial services to North 
        Korean persons to, through, or from the territories of such 
        countries or by persons subject to the jurisdiction of such 
        governments; or''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Appropriate congressional committees and 
        leadership.--The term `appropriate congressional committees and 
        leadership' means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and 
                the majority and minority leaders of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the 
                Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Ways 
                and Means, and the Speaker, the majority leader, and 
                the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
            ``(2) Applicable united nations security council 
        resolution; north korean financial institution; north korean 
        person.--The terms `applicable United Nations Security Council 
        resolution', `North Korean financial institution', and `North 
        Korean person' have the meanings given those terms in section 3 
        of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 
        (22 U.S.C. 9202).''.

SEC. 6925. REPORT ON USE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF NORTH KOREA OF BENEFICIAL 
              OWNERSHIP RULES TO ACCESS THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to 
the appropriate congressional committees a report setting forth the 
findings of the Secretary regarding how the Government of North Korea 
is exploiting laws with respect to the beneficial owner of an entity in 
order to access the international financial system.
    (b) Elements.--The Secretary shall include in the report required 
under subsection (a) proposals for such legislative and administrative 
action as the Secretary considers appropriate to combat the abuse by 
the Government of North Korea of shell companies and other similar 
entities to avoid or evade sanctions.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

              PART II--CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW AND OVERSIGHT

SEC. 6931. NOTIFICATION OF TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS.

    Not less than 15 days before taking any action to terminate or 
suspend the application of sanctions under this subtitle or an 
amendment made by this subtitle, the President shall notify the 
appropriate congressional committees of the President's intent to take 
the action and the reasons for the action.

SEC. 6932. REPORTS ON CERTAIN LICENSING ACTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the President 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
the operation of the system for issuing licenses for transactions under 
covered regulatory provisions during the preceding 180-day period that 
includes--
            (1) the number and types of such licenses applied for 
        during that period; and
            (2) the number and types of such licenses issued during 
        that period.
    (b) Covered Regulatory Provision Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``covered regulatory provision'' means any of the following 
provisions, as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of 
this Act and as such provisions relate to North Korea:
            (1) Part 743, 744, or 746 of title 15, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            (2) Part 510 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (3) Any other provision of title 31, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
    (c) Form.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 6933. BRIEFINGS ON IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF SANCTIONS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
provide to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on 
efforts relating to the implementation and enforcement of United States 
sanctions with respect to North Korea, including appropriate updates on 
the efforts of the Department of the Treasury to address compliance 
with such sanctions by foreign financial institutions.

SEC. 6934. REPORT ON FINANCIAL NETWORKS AND FINANCIAL METHODS OF THE 
              GOVERNMENT OF NORTH KOREA.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 
        2025, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a report on sources of external 
        support for the Government of North Korea that includes--
                    (A) a description of the methods used by the 
                Government of North Korea to deal in, transact in, or 
                conceal the ownership, control, or origin of goods and 
                services exported by North Korea;
                    (B) an assessment of the relationship between the 
                proliferation of weapons of mass destruction by the 
                Government of North Korea and the financial industry or 
                financial institutions;
                    (C) an assessment of the relationship between the 
                acquisition by the Government of North Korea of 
                military expertise, equipment, and technology and the 
                financial industry or financial institutions;
                    (D) a description of the export by any person to 
                the United States of goods, services, or technology 
                that are made with significant amounts of North Korean 
                labor, material, or goods, including minerals, 
                manufacturing, seafood, overseas labor, or other 
                exports from North Korea;
                    (E) an assessment of the involvement of any person 
                in human trafficking involving citizens or nationals of 
                North Korea;
                    (F) a description of how the President plans to 
                address the flow of funds generated by activities 
                described in subparagraphs (A) through (E), including 
                through the use of sanctions or other means;
                    (G) an assessment of the extent to which the 
                Government of North Korea engages in criminal 
                activities, including money laundering, to support that 
                Government;
                    (H) information relating to the identification, 
                blocking, and release of property described in section 
                201B(b)(1) of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy 
                Enhancement Act of 2016, as added by section 1721;
                    (I) a description of the metrics used to measure 
                the effectiveness of law enforcement and diplomatic 
                initiatives of Federal, State, and foreign governments 
                to comply with the provisions of applicable United 
                Nations Security Council resolutions; and
                    (J) an assessment of the effectiveness of programs 
                within the financial industry to ensure compliance with 
                United States sanctions, applicable United Nations 
                Security Council resolutions, and applicable Executive 
                orders.
            (2) Form.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (b) Interagency Coordination.--The President shall ensure that any 
information collected pursuant to subsection (a) is shared among the 
Federal departments and agencies involved in investigations described 
in section 102(b) of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement 
Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9212(b)).

SEC. 6935. REPORT ON COUNTRIES OF CONCERN WITH RESPECT TO 
              TRANSSHIPMENT, REEXPORTATION, OR DIVERSION OF CERTAIN 
              ITEMS TO NORTH KOREA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 2023, the 
Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the President, the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of 
State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the appropriate congressional 
committees a report that identifies all countries that the Director 
determines are of concern with respect to transshipment, reexportation, 
or diversion of items subject to the provisions of the Export 
Administration Regulations under subchapter C of chapter VII of title 
15, Code of Federal Regulations, to an entity owned or controlled by 
the Government of North Korea.
    (b) Form.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

                       PART III--GENERAL MATTERS

SEC. 6941. RULEMAKING.

    The President shall prescribe such rules and regulations as may be 
necessary to carry out this subtitle and amendments made by this 
subtitle.

SEC. 6942. AUTHORITY TO CONSOLIDATE REPORTS.

    (a) In General.--Any and all reports required to be submitted to 
the appropriate congressional committees under this subtitle or an 
amendment made by this subtitle that are subject to a deadline for 
submission consisting of the same unit of time may be consolidated into 
a single report that is submitted pursuant to that deadline.
    (b) Contents.--Any reports consolidated under subsection (a) shall 
contain all information required under this subtitle or an amendment 
made by this subtitle and any other elements that may be required by 
existing law.

SEC. 6943. WAIVERS, EXEMPTIONS, AND TERMINATION.

    (a) Application and Modification of Exemptions and Waivers From 
North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016.--Section 208 
of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 
U.S.C. 9228) is amended by inserting ``201B,'' after ``201A,'' each 
place it appears.
    (b) Suspension.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to section 1731, any requirement 
        to impose sanctions under this subtitle or the amendments made 
        by this subtitle, and any sanctions imposed pursuant to this 
        subtitle or any such amendment, may be suspended for up to one 
        year if the President makes the certification described in 
        section 401 of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement 
        Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9251) to the appropriate congressional 
        committees.
            (2) Renewal.--A suspension under paragraph (1) may be 
        renewed in accordance with section 401(b) of the North Korea 
        Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 
        9251(b)).
    (c) Termination.--Subject to section 1731, any requirement to 
impose sanctions under this subtitle or the amendments made by this 
subtitle, and any sanctions imposed pursuant to this subtitle or any 
such amendment, shall terminate on the date on which the President 
makes the certification described in section 402 of the North Korea 
Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9252).

SEC. 6944. PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.

    (a) In General.--If a finding under this subtitle or an amendment 
made by this subtitle, a prohibition, condition, or penalty imposed as 
a result of any such finding, or a penalty imposed under this subtitle 
or an amendment made by this subtitle, is based on classified 
information (as defined in section 1(a) of the Classified Information 
Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)) and a court reviews the finding or the 
imposition of the prohibition, condition, or penalty, the Secretary of 
the Treasury may submit such information to the court ex parte and in 
camera.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to confer or imply any right to judicial review of any 
finding under this subtitle or an amendment made by this subtitle, any 
prohibition, condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any such 
finding, or any penalty imposed under this subtitle or an amendment 
made by this subtitle.

SEC. 6945. BRIEFING ON RESOURCING OF SANCTIONS PROGRAMS.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to the appropriate 
congressional committees a briefing on--
            (1) the resources allocated by the Department of the 
        Treasury to support each sanctions program administered by the 
        Department; and
            (2) recommendations for additional authorities or resources 
        necessary to expand the capacity or capability of the 
        Department related to implementation and enforcement of such 
        programs.

SEC. 6946. BRIEFING ON PROLIFERATION FINANCING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to 
the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on addressing 
proliferation finance.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) The Department of the Treasury's definition and 
        description of an appropriate risk-based approach to combating 
        financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
            (2) An assessment of--
                    (A) Federal financial regulatory agency oversight, 
                including by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
                of United States financial institutions and the 
                adoption by their foreign subsidiaries, branches, and 
                correspondent institutions of a risk-based approach to 
                proliferation financing; and
                    (B) whether financial institutions in foreign 
                jurisdictions known by the United States intelligence 
                and law enforcement communities to be jurisdictions 
                through which North Korea moves substantial sums of 
                licit and illicit finance are applying a risk-based 
                approach to proliferation financing, and if that 
                approach is comparable to the approach required by 
                United States financial institution supervisors.
            (3) A survey of the technical assistance the Office of 
        Technical Assistance of the Department of the Treasury, and 
        other appropriate Executive branch offices, currently provide 
        foreign institutions on implementing counter-proliferation 
        financing best practices.
            (4) An assessment of the ability of foreign subsidiaries, 
        branches, and correspondent institutions of United States 
        financial institutions to implement a risk-based approach to 
        proliferation financing.

                Subtitle B--Divestment From North Korea

SEC. 6951. AUTHORITY OF STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TO DIVEST FROM 
              COMPANIES THAT INVEST IN NORTH KOREA.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should support the decision of any State or local government 
made for moral, prudential, or reputational reasons, to divest from, or 
prohibit the investment of assets of the State or local government in, 
a person that engages in investment activities described in subsection 
(c) if North Korea is subject to economic sanctions imposed by the 
United States or the United Nations Security Council.
    (b) Authority To Divest.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, a State or local government may adopt and enforce measures that 
meet the requirements of subsection (d) to divest the assets of the 
State or local government from, or prohibit investment of the assets of 
the State or local government in, any person that the State or local 
government determines, using credible information available to the 
public, engages in investment activities described in subsection (c).
    (c) Investment Activities Described.--Investment activities 
described in this subsection are activities of a value of more than 
$10,000 relating to an investment in North Korea or in goods or 
services originating in North Korea that are not conducted pursuant to 
a license issued by the Department of the Treasury.
    (d) Requirements.--Any measure taken by a State or local government 
under subsection (b) shall meet the following requirements:
            (1) Notice.--The State or local government shall provide 
        written notice to each person with respect to which a measure 
        under this section is to be applied.
            (2) Timing.--The measure applied under this section shall 
        apply to a person not earlier than the date that is 90 days 
        after the date on which written notice under paragraph (1) is 
        provided to the person.
            (3) Opportunity to demonstrate compliance.--
                    (A) In general.--The State or local government 
                shall provide to each person with respect to which a 
                measure is to be applied under this section an 
                opportunity to demonstrate to the State or local 
                government that the person does not engage in 
                investment activities described in subsection (c).
                    (B) Nonapplication.--If a person with respect to 
                which a measure is to be applied under this section 
                demonstrates to the State or local government under 
                subparagraph (A) that the person does not engage in 
                investment activities described in subsection (c), the 
                measure shall not apply to that person.
            (4) Sense of congress on avoiding erroneous targeting.--It 
        is the sense of Congress that a State or local government 
        should not adopt a measure under subsection (b) with respect to 
        a person unless the State or local government has--
                    (A) made every effort to avoid erroneously 
                targeting the person; and
                    (B) verified that the person engages in investment 
                activities described in subsection (c).
    (e) Notice to Department of Justice.--Not later than 30 days before 
a State or local government applies a measure under this section, the 
State or local government shall notify the Attorney General of that 
measure.
    (f) Authorization for Prior Applied Measures.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this section or any other provision of law, a State or local 
        government may enforce a measure (without regard to the 
        requirements of subsection (d), except as provided in paragraph 
        (2)) applied by the State or local government before the date 
        of the enactment of this Act that provides for the divestment 
        of assets of the State or local government from, or prohibits 
        the investment of the assets of the State or local government 
        in, any person that the State or local government determines, 
        using credible information available to the public, engages in 
        investment activities described in subsection (c) that are 
        identified in that measure.
            (2) Application of notice requirements.--A measure 
        described in paragraph (1) shall be subject to the requirements 
        of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3)(A) of subsection (d) on and 
        after the date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act.
    (g) No Preemption.--A measure applied by a State or local 
government that is consistent with subsection (b) or (f) is not 
preempted by any Federal law.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Asset.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the term ``asset'' means public monies, and 
                includes any pension, retirement, annuity, endowment 
                fund, or similar instrument, that is controlled by a 
                State or local government.
                    (B) Exception.--The term ``asset'' does not include 
                employee benefit plans covered by title I of the 
                Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 
                U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
            (2) Investment.--The term ``investment'' includes--
                    (A) a commitment or contribution of funds or 
                property;
                    (B) a loan or other extension of credit; and
                    (C) the entry into or renewal of a contract for 
                goods or services.
    (i) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2) and 
        subsection (f), this section applies to measures applied by a 
        State or local government before, on, or after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) Notice requirements.--Except as provided in subsection 
        (f), subsections (d) and (e) apply to measures applied by a 
        State or local government on or after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act.

SEC. 6952. SAFE HARBOR FOR CHANGES OF INVESTMENT POLICIES BY ASSET 
              MANAGERS.

    Section 13(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 
80a-13(c)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) engage in investment activities described in 
                section 1751(c) of the Otto Warmbier Banking 
                Restrictions Involving North Korea Act of 2019.''.

SEC. 6953. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING CERTAIN ERISA PLAN INVESTMENTS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) a fiduciary of an employee benefit plan, as defined in 
        section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 
        1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(3)), may divest plan assets from, or avoid 
        investing plan assets in, any person the fiduciary determines 
        engages in investment activities described in section 6951(c), 
        if--
                    (A) the fiduciary makes that determination using 
                credible information that is available to the public; 
                and
                    (B) the fiduciary prudently determines that the 
                result of that divestment or avoidance of investment 
                would not be expected to provide the employee benefit 
                plan with--
                            (i) a lower rate of return than alternative 
                        investments with commensurate degrees of risk; 
                        or
                            (ii) a higher degree of risk than 
                        alternative investments with commensurate rates 
                        of return; and
            (2) by divesting assets or avoiding the investment of 
        assets as described in paragraph (1), the fiduciary is not 
        breaching the responsibilities, obligations, or duties imposed 
        upon the fiduciary by subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 
        404(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 
        1974 (29 U.S.C. 1104(a)(1)).

SEC. 6954. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this subtitle, an amendment made by this subtitle, or 
any other provision of law authorizing sanctions with respect to North 
Korea shall be construed to affect or displace--
            (1) the authority of a State or local government to issue 
        and enforce rules governing the safety, soundness, and solvency 
        of a financial institution subject to its jurisdiction; or
            (2) the regulation and taxation by the several States of 
        the business of insurance, pursuant to the Act of March 9, 1945 
        (59 Stat. 33, chapter 20; 15 U.S.C. 1011 et seq.) (commonly 
        known as the ``McCarran-Ferguson Act'').

      Subtitle C--Financial Industry Guidance to Halt Trafficking

SEC. 6961. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Financial Industry Guidance to 
Halt Trafficking Act'' or the ``FIGHT Act''.

SEC. 6962. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The terms ``human trafficking'' and ``trafficking in 
        persons'' are used interchangeably to describe crimes involving 
        the exploitation of a person for the purposes of compelled 
        labor or commercial sex through the use of force, fraud, or 
        coercion.
            (2) According to the International Labour Organization, 
        there are an estimated 24,900,000 people worldwide who are 
        victims of forced labor, including human trafficking victims in 
        the United States.
            (3) Human trafficking is perpetrated for financial gain.
            (4) According to the International Labour Organization, of 
        the estimated $150,000,000,000 or more in global profits 
        generated annually from human trafficking--
                    (A) approximately \2/3\ are generated by commercial 
                sexual exploitation, exacted by fraud or by force; and
                    (B) approximately \1/3\ are generated by forced 
                labor.
            (5) Most purchases of commercial sex acts are paid for with 
        cash, making trafficking proceeds difficult to identify in the 
        financial system. Nonetheless, traffickers rely heavily on 
        access to financial institutions as destinations for 
        trafficking proceeds and as conduits to finance every step of 
        the trafficking process.
            (6) Under section 1956 of title 18, United States Code 
        (relating to money laundering), human trafficking is a 
        ``specified unlawful activity'' and transactions conducted with 
        proceeds earned from trafficking people, or used to further 
        trafficking operations, can be prosecuted as money laundering 
        offenses.

SEC. 6963. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the President should aggressively apply, as 
        appropriate, existing sanctions for human trafficking 
        authorized under section 111 of the Trafficking Victims 
        Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7108);
            (2) the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the 
        Department of the Treasury should continue--
                    (A) to monitor reporting required under subchapter 
                II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code 
                (commonly known as the ``Bank Secrecy Act'') and to 
                update advisories, as warranted;
                    (B) to periodically review its advisories to 
                provide covered financial institutions, as appropriate, 
                with a list of new ``red flags'' for identifying 
                activities of concern, particularly human trafficking;
                    (C) to encourage entities covered by the advisories 
                described in subparagraph (B) to incorporate relevant 
                elements provided in the advisories into their current 
                transaction and account monitoring systems or in 
                policies, procedures, and training on human trafficking 
                to enable financial institutions to maintain ongoing 
                efforts to examine transactions and accounts;
                    (D) to use geographic targeting orders, as 
                appropriate, to impose additional reporting and 
                recordkeeping requirements under section 5326(a) of 
                title 31, United States Code, to carry out the purposes 
                of, and prevent evasions of the Bank Secrecy Act; and
                    (E) to utilize the Bank Secrecy Act Advisory Group 
                and other relevant entities to identify opportunities 
                for nongovernmental organizations to share relevant 
                actionable information on human traffickers' use of the 
                financial sector for nefarious purposes;
            (3) Federal banking regulators, the Department of the 
        Treasury, relevant law enforcement agencies, and the Human 
        Smuggling and Trafficking Center, in partnership with 
        representatives from the United States financial community, 
        should adopt regular forms of sharing information to disrupt 
        human trafficking, including developing protocols and 
        procedures to share actionable information between and amongst 
        covered institutions, law enforcement, and the United States 
        intelligence community;
            (4) training front line bank and money service business 
        employees, school teachers, law enforcement officers, foreign 
        service officers, counselors, and the general public is an 
        important factor in identifying trafficking victims;
            (5) the Department of Homeland Security's Blue Campaign, 
        training by the BEST Employers Alliance, and similar efforts by 
        industry, human rights, and nongovernmental organizations 
        focused on human trafficking provide good examples of current 
        efforts to educate employees of critical sectors to save 
        victims and disrupt trafficking networks;
            (6) the President should intensify diplomatic efforts, 
        bilaterally and in appropriate international fora, such as the 
        United Nations, to develop and implement a coordinated, 
        consistent, multilateral strategy for addressing the 
        international financial networks supporting human trafficking; 
        and
            (7) in deliberations between the United States Government 
        and any foreign country, including through participation in the 
        Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units, regarding money 
        laundering, corruption, and transnational crimes, the United 
        States Government should--
                    (A) encourage cooperation by foreign governments 
                and relevant international fora in identifying the 
                extent to which the proceeds from human trafficking are 
                being used to facilitate terrorist financing, 
                corruption, or other illicit financial crimes;
                    (B) encourage cooperation by foreign governments 
                and relevant international fora in identifying the 
                nexus between human trafficking and money laundering;
                    (C) advance policies that promote the cooperation 
                of foreign governments, through information sharing, 
                training, or other measures, in the enforcement of this 
                subtitle;
                    (D) encourage the Financial Action Task Force to 
                update its July 2011 typology reports entitled, 
                ``Laundering the Proceeds of Corruption'' and ``Money 
                Laundering Risks Arising from Trafficking in Human 
                Beings and Smuggling of Migrants'', to identify the 
                money laundering risk arising from the trafficking of 
                human beings; and
                    (E) encourage the Egmont Group of Financial 
                Intelligence Units to study the extent to which human 
                trafficking operations are being used for money 
                laundering, terrorist financing, or other illicit 
                financial purposes.

SEC. 6964. COORDINATION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING ISSUES BY THE OFFICE OF 
              TERRORISM AND FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE.

    (a) Functions.--Section 312(a)(4) of title 31, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G) as 
        subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:
                    ``(E) combating illicit financing relating to human 
                trafficking;''.
    (b) Interagency Coordination.--Section 312(a) of such title is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) Interagency coordination.--The Secretary of the 
        Treasury, after consultation with the Undersecretary for 
        Terrorism and Financial Crimes, shall designate an office 
        within the OTFI that shall coordinate efforts to combat the 
        illicit financing of human trafficking with--
                    ``(A) other offices of the Department of the 
                Treasury;
                    ``(B) other Federal agencies, including--
                            ``(i) the Office to Monitor and Combat 
                        Trafficking in Persons of the Department of 
                        State; and
                            ``(ii) the Interagency Task Force to 
                        Monitor and Combat Trafficking;
                    ``(C) State and local law enforcement agencies; and
                    ``(D) foreign governments.''.

SEC. 6965. STRENGTHENING THE ROLE OF ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING AND OTHER 
              FINANCIAL TOOLS IN COMBATING HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

    (a) Interagency Task Force Recommendations Targeting Money 
Laundering Related to Human Trafficking.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Interagency Task Force to 
        Monitor and Combat Trafficking shall submit to the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, 
        the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign 
        Affairs, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
        Representatives, the Secretary of the Treasury, and each 
        appropriate Federal banking agency--
                    (A) an analysis of anti-money laundering efforts of 
                the United States Government, United States financial 
                institutions, and multilateral development banks 
                related to human trafficking; and
                    (B) appropriate legislative, administrative, and 
                other recommendations to strengthen efforts against 
                money laundering relating to human trafficking.
            (2) Required recommendations.--The recommendations under 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) best practices based on successful anti-human 
                trafficking programs currently in place at domestic and 
                international financial institutions that are suitable 
                for broader adoption;
                    (B) feedback from stakeholders, including victims 
                of severe trafficking in persons, advocates of persons 
                at risk of becoming victims of severe forms of 
                trafficking in persons, the United States Advisory 
                Council on Human Trafficking, civil society 
                organizations, and financial institutions on policy 
                proposals derived from the analysis conducted by the 
                task force referred to in paragraph (1) that would 
                enhance the efforts and programs of financial 
                institutions to detect and deter money laundering 
                related to human trafficking, including any recommended 
                changes to internal policies, procedures, and controls 
                related to human trafficking;
                    (C) any recommended changes to training programs at 
                financial institutions to better equip employees to 
                deter and detect money laundering related to human 
                trafficking; and
                    (D) any recommended changes to expand human 
                trafficking-related information sharing among financial 
                institutions and between such financial institutions, 
                appropriate law enforcement agencies, and appropriate 
                Federal agencies.
    (b) Additional Reporting Requirement.--Section 105(d)(7) of the 
Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(7)) is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) by inserting ``the Committee on Financial 
                Services,'' after ``the Committee on Foreign Affairs''; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting ``the Committee on Banking, 
                Housing, and Urban Affairs,'' after ``the Committee on 
                Foreign Relations,'';
            (2) in subparagraph (Q)(vii), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (3) in subparagraph (R), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(S) the efforts of the United States to eliminate 
                money laundering related to human trafficking and the 
                number of investigations, arrests, indictments, and 
                convictions in money laundering cases with a nexus to 
                human trafficking.''.
    (c) Required Review of Procedures.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Financial 
Institutions Examination Council, in consultation with the Secretary of 
the Treasury, victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons, 
advocates of persons at risk of becoming victims of severe forms of 
trafficking in persons, the United States Advisory Council on 
Trafficking, civil society organizations, the private sector, and 
appropriate law enforcement agencies, shall--
            (1) review and enhance training and examinations procedures 
        to improve the surveillance capabilities of anti-money 
        laundering and countering the financing of terrorism programs 
        to detect human trafficking-related financial transactions;
            (2) review and enhance procedures for referring potential 
        human trafficking cases to the appropriate law enforcement 
        agency; and
            (3) determine, as appropriate, whether requirements for 
        financial institutions and covered financial institutions are 
        sufficient to detect and deter money laundering related to 
        human trafficking.
    (d) Limitations.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to--
            (1) grant rulemaking authority to the Interagency Task 
        Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking; or
            (2) authorize financial institutions to deny services to or 
        violate the privacy of victims of trafficking, victims of 
        severe forms of trafficking, or individuals not responsible for 
        promoting severe forms of trafficking in persons.

SEC. 6966. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RESOURCES TO COMBAT HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) adequate funding should be provided for critical 
        Federal efforts to combat human trafficking;
            (2) the Department of the Treasury should have the 
        appropriate resources to vigorously investigate human 
        trafficking networks under section 111 of the Trafficking 
        Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7108) and other 
        relevant statutes and Executive orders;
            (3) the Department of the Treasury and the Department of 
        Justice should each have the capacity and appropriate resources 
        to support technical assistance to develop foreign partners' 
        ability to combat human trafficking through strong national 
        anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism 
        programs;
            (4) each United States Attorney's Office should be provided 
        appropriate funding to increase the number of personnel for 
        community education and outreach and investigative support and 
        forensic analysis related to human trafficking; and
            (5) the Department of State should be provided additional 
        resources, as necessary, to carry out the Survivors of Human 
        Trafficking Empowerment Act (section 115 of Public Law 114-22; 
        129 Stat. 243).

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 6971. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS.

    (a) In General.--The authorities and requirements to impose 
sanctions authorized under this title or the amendments made by this 
title shall not include the authority or requirement to impose 
sanctions on the importation of goods.
    (b) Good Defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means any 
article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply, or 
manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and 
excluding technical data.

        TITLE LXXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 7801. PRIORITIZATION OF PROJECTS IN ANNUAL REPORT ON UNFUNDED 
              REQUIREMENTS FOR LABORATORY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION 
              PROJECTS.

    Section 2806 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 222a note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Energy, Installations, and Environment'' and inserting ``Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment'';
            (2) by striking ``reporting'' and inserting ``report''; and
            (3) by inserting ``in prioritized order, with specific 
        accounts and program elements identified,'' after ``evaluation 
        facilities,''.

SEC. 7802. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO REDUCE AIR BASE RESILIENCY OR 
              DEMOLISH PROTECTED AIRCRAFT SHELTERS IN THE EUROPEAN 
              THEATER WITHOUT CREATING A SIMILAR PROTECTION FROM 
              ATTACK.

    (a) Ineffectiveness of Section 2802.--Section 2802 shall have no 
force or effect.
    (b) Prohibition.--No funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense may be obligated 
or expended to implement any activity that reduces air base resiliency 
or demolishes protected aircraft shelters in the European theater, and 
the Department may not otherwise implement any such activity, without 
creating a similar protection from attack in the European theater until 
such time as the Secretary of Defense certifies to the congressional 
defense committees that protected aircraft shelters are not required in 
the European theater.

SEC. 7803. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CLOSE OR RETURN TO THE HOST 
              NATIONAL ANY EXISTING AIR BASE.

    (a) Ineffectiveness of Section 2803.--Section 2803 shall have no 
force or effect.
    (b) Prohibition.--No funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense may be obligated 
or expended to implement any activity that closes or returns to the 
host nation any existing air base, and the Department may not otherwise 
implement any such activity, until such time as the Secretary of 
Defense certifies that there is no longer a need for a rotational 
military presence in the European theater.

SEC. 7804. REPORT ON UNFUNDED REQUIREMENTS FOR MAJOR AND MINOR MILITARY 
              CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS FOR CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS OF 
              THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND INCREASE OF MAXIMUM AMOUNTS 
              FOR SUCH MINOR PROJECTS.

    (a) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Personnel and Readiness, in coordination with the Assistant 
        Secretary for Energy, Installations, and Environment for each 
        military department, shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees each year, at the time the budget of the President 
        for the fiscal year beginning in such year is submitted to 
        Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, 
        a report, in priority order, listing unfunded requirements for 
        major and minor military construction projects for child 
        development centers of the Department of Defense.
            (2) Inclusion of form.--Each report submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall include a Department of Defense Form DD1391 
        for each major and minor military construction project included 
        in the report.
    (b) Increased Maximum Amounts Applicable to Minor Construction 
Projects for Child Development Centers.--
            (1) In general.--For the purpose of any minor military 
        construction project for a child development center carried out 
        on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, the amount 
        specified in section 2805(a)(2) of title 10, United States 
        Code, is deemed to be $15,000,000.
            (2) Sunset.--This subsection shall terminate on the date 
        that is three years after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act.
    (c) Sense of the Senate.--It is the Sense of the Senate that the 
Senate recognizes the need for additional investment in child 
development centers and remains committed to ensuring that future 
executable requirements for child development centers are funded as 
much as possible beginning in fiscal year 2020 based on the list of 
unfunded requirements included in the report submitted under subsection 
(a).

SEC. 7805. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORIZED USES OF CERTAIN PROPERTY CONVEYED 
              BY THE UNITED STATES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) In General.--Section 2 of Public Law 85-236 (71 Stat. 517) is 
amended in the first sentence by inserting after ``for other military 
purposes'' the following: ``and for purposes of meeting the needs of 
the homeless (as that term is defined in section 103 of the McKinney-
Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302))''.
    (b) Modification of Use.--
            (1) Application.--The State of California may submit to the 
        Administrator of General Services an application for use of the 
        property conveyed pursuant to section 2 of Public Law 85-236 
        for purposes of meeting the needs of the homeless in accordance 
        with the amendment made by subsection (a).
            (2) Review of application.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the 
                date of receipt of an application pursuant to paragraph 
                (1), the Administrator and the Secretary of Health and 
                Human Services shall jointly determine whether the use 
                of the property described in the application is a use 
                for purposes of meeting the needs of the homeless.
                    (B) Concurrence by secretary of the army.--If the 
                Administrator and the Secretary of Health and Human 
                Services jointly determine that the use of the property 
                described in the application is for purposes of meeting 
                the needs of the homeless, the Administrator shall 
                request concurrence by the Secretary of the Army that 
                the proposed use to meet the needs of the homeless does 
                not preclude current and anticipated future use of the 
                property for training of the National Guard and for 
                other military purposes.
            (3) Modification of instrument of conveyance.--If the 
        Secretary of the Army concurs that the proposed use to meet the 
        needs of the homeless does not preclude current and anticipated 
        future use of the property for training of the National Guard 
        and for other military purposes, the Administrator shall 
        execute and record in the appropriate office an instrument of 
        modification of the deed of conveyance executed pursuant to 
        Public Law 85-236 in order to authorize such use of the 
        property. The instrument shall include such additional terms 
        and conditions as the Administrator considers appropriate to 
        protect the interests of the United States.

      TITLE LXXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

SEC. 8101. IMPLEMENTATION OF COMMON FINANCIAL REPORTING SYSTEM FOR 
              NUCLEAR SECURITY ENTERPRISE.

    Not more than 90 percent of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by section 3101 for the National Nuclear Security Administration for 
fiscal year 2020 for Federal salaries and expenses and available for 
travel and transportation may be obligated or expended before the date 
on which the Administrator for Nuclear Security completes 
implementation of the common financial reporting system for the nuclear 
security enterprise as required by section 3113(a) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 50 
U.S.C. 2512 note).

SEC. 8102. MODIFICATION TO CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO PLUTONIUM 
              PIT PRODUCTION CAPACITY.

    (a) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) rebuilding a robust plutonium pit production 
        infrastructure with a capacity of up to 80 pits per year is 
        critical to maintaining the viability of the nuclear stockpile;
            (2) that effort will require cooperation from experts 
        across the nuclear security enterprise; and
            (3) any further delay to achieving a plutonium sustainment 
        capability to support the planned stockpile life extension 
        programs will result in an unacceptable capability gap to our 
        deterrent posture.
    (b) Modification to Requirements.--Section 4219 of the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2538a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (5) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(5) during 2030, produces not less than 80 war reserve 
        plutonium pits.'';
            (2) by striking subsection (b);
            (3) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (b) and (c), respectively;
            (4) in subsection (b), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
        striking ``2027 (or, if the authority under subsection (b) is 
        exercised, 2029)'' and inserting ``2030''; and
            (5) in subsection (c), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
        striking ``subsection (c)'' and inserting ``subsection (b)''.

         TITLE LXXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

SEC. 8202. MEMBERSHIP OF DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD.

    The text of section 3202(b)(1)(A) is hereby deemed to read as 
follows:
            ``(1) in paragraph (1), by striking the second sentence and 
        inserting the following new sentences: `A member may be 
        reappointed for a second term only if the member was confirmed 
        by the Senate more than two years into the member's first term. 
        A member may not be reappointed for a third term.'.''.

                  TITLE LXXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

SEC. 8500. INEFFECTIVENESS OF TITLE XXXV.

    Title XXXV and the amendment made by that title shall have no force 
or effect.

SEC. 8501. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Maritime Administration 
Authorization and Enhancement Act of 2019''.

                  Subtitle A--Maritime Administration

SEC. 8511. AUTHORIZATION OF THE MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Department of Transportation for fiscal year 2020, to be available 
without fiscal year limitation if so provided in appropriations Acts, 
for programs associated with maintaining the United States Merchant 
Marine, the following amounts:
            (1) For expenses necessary for operations of the United 
        States Merchant Marine Academy, $95,944,000, of which--
                    (A) $77,944,000 shall remain available until 
                September 30, 2021 for Academy operations; and
                    (B) $18,000,000 shall remain available until 
                expended for capital asset management at the Academy.
            (2) For expenses necessary to support the State maritime 
        academies, $50,280,000, of which--
                    (A) $2,400,000 shall remain available until 
                September 30, 2021, for the Student Incentive Program;
                    (B) $6,000,000 shall remain available until 
                expended for direct payments to such academies;
                    (C) $30,080,000 shall remain available until 
                expended for maintenance and repair of State maritime 
                academy training vessels;
                    (D) $3,800,000 shall remain available until 
                expended for training ship fuel assistance; and
                    (E) $8,000,000 shall remain available until 
                expended for offsetting the costs of training ship 
                sharing.
            (3) For expenses necessary to support the National Security 
        Multi-Mission Vessel Program, $600,000,000, which shall remain 
        available until expended.
            (4) For expenses necessary to support Maritime 
        Administration operations and programs, $60,442,000, of which 
        $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended for activities 
        authorized under section 50307 of title 46, United States Code.
            (5) For expenses necessary to dispose of vessels in the 
        National Defense Reserve Fleet, $5,000,000, which shall remain 
        available until expended.
            (6) For expenses necessary to maintain and preserve a 
        United States flag Merchant Marine to serve the national 
        security needs of the United States under chapter 531 of title 
        46, United States Code, $300,000,000, which shall remain 
        available until expended.
            (7) For expenses necessary for the loan guarantee program 
        authorized under chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, 
        $33,000,000, of which--
                    (A) $30,000,000 may be used for the cost (as 
                defined in section 502(5) of the Federal Credit Reform 
                Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a(5)) of loan guarantees under 
                the program, which shall remain available until 
                expended; and
                    (B) $3,000,000 may be used for administrative 
                expenses relating to loan guarantee commitments under 
                the program.
            (8) For expenses necessary to provide assistance to small 
        shipyards and for maritime training programs under section 
        54101 of title 46, United States Code, $40,000,000, which shall 
        remain available until expended.
            (9) For expenses necessary to implement the Port and 
        Intermodal Improvement Program, $600,000,000, except that no 
        funds shall be used for a grant award to purchase fully 
        automated cargo handling equipment that is remotely operated or 
        remotely monitored with or without the exercise of human 
        intervention or control, if the Secretary determines such 
        equipment would result in a net loss of jobs that relate to the 
        movement of goods through a port and its intermodal 
        connections.

SEC. 8512. MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM.

    (a) Award of Operating Agreements.--Section 53103 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``2025'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``2035''.
    (b) Effectiveness of Operating Agreements.--Section 53104(a) of 
title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking ``2025'' and 
inserting ``2035''.
    (c) Payments.--Section 53106(a)(1) of title 46, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``$3,700,000 for each 
        of fiscal years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025.'' and inserting 
        ``$5,233,463 for each of fiscal years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 
        2025; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) $5,233,463 for each of fiscal years 2026 
                through 2035.''.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 53111 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``$222,000,000 for each 
        fiscal year thereafter through fiscal year 2025.'' and 
        inserting ``$314,007,780 for each of fiscal years 2022, 2023, 
        2024, and 2025; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) $314,007,780 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 
        2035.''.

SEC. 8513. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT.

    The Inspector General of the Department of Transportation shall--
            (1) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
        this title, initiate an audit of the Maritime Administration's 
        actions to address only those recommendations from Chapter 3 
        and recommendations 5-1, 5-2, 5-3, 5-4, 5-5, and 5-6 identified 
        by a National Academy of Public Administration panel in the 
        November 2017 report entitled ``Maritime Administration: 
        Defining its Mission, Aligning its Programs, and Meeting its 
        Objectives''; and
            (2) submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives a report containing the results of that audit 
        once the audit is completed.

SEC. 8514. APPOINTMENT OF CANDIDATES ATTENDING SPONSORED PREPARATORY 
              SCHOOL.

    Section 51303 of title 46, United State Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Appointment of Candidates Selected for Preparatory School 
Sponsorship.--The Secretary of Transportation may appoint each year as 
cadets at the United States Merchant Marine Academy not more than 40 
qualified individuals sponsored by the Academy to attend preparatory 
school during the academic year prior to entrance in the Academy, and 
who have successfully met the terms and conditions of sponsorship set 
by the Academy.''.

SEC. 8515. INDEPENDENT STUDY ON THE UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE 
              ACADEMY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this title, the Secretary of Transportation shall seek to 
enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Public 
Administration (referred to in this section as the ``Academy'') to 
carry out the activities described in this section.
    (b) Study Elements.--In accordance with the agreement described in 
subsection (a), the Academy shall conduct a study of the United States 
Merchant Marine Academy that consists of the following:
            (1) A comprehensive assessment of the United States 
        Merchant Marine Academy's systems, training, facilities, 
        infrastructure, information technology, and stakeholder 
        engagement.
            (2) Identification of needs and opportunities for 
        modernization to help the United States Merchant Marine Academy 
        keep pace with more modern campuses.
            (3) Development of an action plan for the United States 
        Merchant Marine Academy with specific recommendations for--
                    (A) improvements or updates relating to the 
                opportunities described in paragraph (2); and
                    (B) systemic changes needed to help the United 
                States Merchant Marine Academy achieve its mission of 
                inspiring and educating the next generation of the 
                mariner workforce on a long-term basis.
    (c) Deadline and Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
the agreement described in subsection (a), the Academy shall prepare 
and submit to the Administrator of the Maritime Administration a report 
containing the action plan described in subsection (b)(3), including 
specific findings and recommendations.

SEC. 8516. GENERAL SUPPORT PROGRAM.

    Section 51501 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(c) National Maritime Centers of Excellence.--The Secretary shall 
designate each State maritime academy as a National Maritime Center of 
Excellence.''.

SEC. 8517. MILITARY TO MARINER.

    (a) Credentialing Support.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this title, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the 
Department in which the Coast Guard operates, the Secretary of 
Commerce, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, with respect 
to the applicable services in their respective departments, and in 
coordination with one another and with the United States Committee on 
the Marine Transportation System, and in consultation with the Merchant 
Marine Personnel Advisory Committee, shall, consistent with applicable 
law, identify all training and experience within the applicable service 
that may qualify for merchant mariner credentialing, and submit a list 
of all identified training and experience to the United States Coast 
Guard National Maritime Center for a determination of whether such 
training and experience counts for credentialing purposes.
    (b) Review of Applicable Service.--The United States Coast Guard 
Commandant shall make a determination of whether training and 
experience counts for credentialing purposes, as described in 
subsection (a), not later than 6 months after the date on which the 
United States Coast Guard National Maritime Center receives a 
submission under subsection (a) identifying a training or experience 
and requesting such a determination.
    (c) Fees and Services.--The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
the Department in which the Coast Guard operates, and the Secretary of 
Commerce, with respect to the applicable services in their respective 
departments, shall--
            (1) take all necessary and appropriate actions to provide 
        for the waiver of fees through the National Maritime Center 
        license evaluation, issuance, and examination for members of 
        the uniformed services on active duty, if a waiver is 
        authorized and appropriate, and, if a waiver is not granted, 
        take all necessary and appropriate actions to provide for the 
        payment of fees for members of the uniformed services on active 
        duty by the applicable service to the fullest extent permitted 
        by law;
            (2) direct the applicable services to take all necessary 
        and appropriate actions to provide for Transportation Worker 
        Identification Credential cards for members of the uniformed 
        services on active duty pursuing or possessing a mariner 
        credential, such as implementation of an equal exchange process 
        for active duty service members at no or minimal cost;
            (3) ensure that members of the applicable services who are 
        to be discharged or released from active duty and who request 
        certification or verification of sea service be provided such 
        certification or verification no later than one month after 
        discharge or release;
            (4) ensure the applicable services have developed, or 
        continue to operate, as appropriate, the online resource known 
        as Credentialing Opportunities On-Line to support separating 
        members of the uniformed services who are seeking information 
        and assistance on merchant mariner credentialing; and
            (5) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
        this section, take all necessary and appropriate actions to 
        review and implement service-related medical certifications to 
        merchant mariner credential requirements.
    (d) Advancing Military to Mariner Within the Employer Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
        the Department in which the Coast Guard operates, and the 
        Secretary of Commerce shall have direct hiring authority to 
        employ separated members of the uniformed services with valid 
        merchant mariner licenses or sea service experience in support 
        of United States national maritime needs, including the Army 
        Corps of Engineers, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
            (2) Appointments of retired members of the armed forces.--
        Except in the case of positions in the Senior Executive 
        Service, the requirements of section 3326(b) of title 5, United 
        States Code, shall not apply with respect to the hiring of a 
        separated member of the uniformed services under paragraph (1).
    (e) Separated Member of the Uniformed Services.--In this section, 
the term ``separated member of the uniformed services'' means an 
individual who--
            (1) is retiring or is retired as a member of the uniformed 
        services;
            (2) is voluntarily separating or voluntarily separated from 
        the uniformed services at the end of enlistment or service 
        obligation; or
            (3) is administratively separating or has administratively 
        separated from the uniformed services with an honorable or 
        general discharge characterization.

SEC. 8518. SALVAGE RECOVERIES OF FEDERALLY OWNED CARGOES.

    Section 57100 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(h) Funds Transfer Authority Related to the Use of National 
Defense Reserve Fleet Vessels and the Provision of Maritime-related 
Services.--
            ``(1) In general.--When the Secretary of Transportation 
        provides for the use of its vessels or maritime-related 
        services and goods under a reimbursable agreement with a 
        Federal entity, or State or local entity, authorized to receive 
        goods and services from the Maritime Administration for 
        programs, projects, activities, and expenses related to the 
        National Defense Reserve Fleet or maritime-related services:
                    ``(A) Federal entities are authorized to transfer 
                funds to the Secretary in advance of expenditure or 
                upon providing the goods or services ordered, as 
                determined by the Secretary.
                    ``(B) The Secretary shall determine all other terms 
                and conditions under which such payments should be made 
                and provide such goods and services using its existing 
                or new contracts, including general agency agreements, 
                memoranda of understanding, or similar agreements.
            ``(2)  Reimbursable agreement with a federal entity.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Maritime Administration is 
                authorized to provide maritime-related services and 
                goods under a reimbursable agreement with a Federal 
                entity.
                    ``(B) Maritime-related services defined.--For the 
                purposes of this subsection, maritime-related services 
                includes the acquisition, procurement, operation, 
                maintenance, preservation, sale, lease, charter, 
                construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning 
                (including outfitting and equipping incidental to 
                construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning) of a 
                merchant vessel or shipyard, ship site, terminal, pier, 
                dock, warehouse, or other installation related to the 
                maritime operations of a Federal entity.
            ``(3) Salvaging cargoes.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Maritime Administration may 
                provide services and purchase goods relating to the 
                salvaging of cargoes aboard vessels in the custody or 
                control of the Maritime Administration or its 
                predecessor agencies and receive and retain 
                reimbursement from Federal entities for all such costs 
                as it may incur.
                    ``(B) Reimbursement.--Reimbursement as provided for 
                in subparagraph (A) may come from--
                            ``(i) the proceeds recovered from such 
                        salvage; or
                            ``(ii) the Federal entity for which the 
                        Maritime Administration has or will provide 
                        such goods and services, depending on the 
                        agreement of the parties involved.
            ``(4) Amounts received.--Amounts received as reimbursements 
        under this subsection shall be credited to the fund or account 
        that was used to cover the costs incurred by the Secretary or, 
        if the period of availability of obligations for that 
        appropriation has expired, to the appropriation of funds that 
        is currently available to the Secretary for substantially the 
        same purpose. Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts 
        in such fund or account and shall be available for the same 
        purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, 
        as amounts in such fund or account.
            ``(5) Advance payments.--Payments made in advance shall be 
        for any part of the estimated cost as determined by the 
        Secretary of Transportation. Adjustments to the amounts paid in 
        advance shall be made as agreed to by the Secretary of 
        Transportation and the head of the ordering agency or unit 
        based on the actual cost of goods or services provided.
            ``(6) Bill or request for payment.--A bill submitted or a 
        request for payment is not subject to audit or certification in 
        advance of payment.''.

SEC. 8519. SALVAGE RECOVERIES FOR SUBROGATED OWNERSHIP OF VESSELS AND 
              CARGOES.

    Section 53909 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(e) Salvage Agreements.--The Secretary of Transportation is 
authorized to enter into marine salvage agreements for the recoveries, 
sale, and disposal of sunken or damaged vessels, cargoes, or properties 
owned or insured by or on behalf of the Maritime Administration, the 
United States Shipping Board, the U.S. Shipping Bureau, the United 
States Maritime Commission, or the War Shipping Administration.
    ``(f) Military Craft.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
consult with the Secretary of the military department concerned prior 
to engaging in or authorizing any activity under subsection (e) that 
will disturb sunken military craft, as defined in title XIV of the 
Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2005 (10 U.S.C. 113 note).
    ``(g) Recoveries.--Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the net 
proceeds from salvage agreements entered into as authorized in 
subsection (e) shall remain available until expended and be distributed 
as follows for marine insurance-related salvages:
            ``(1) Fifty percent of the net funds recovered shall be 
        deposited in the war risk revolving fund and shall be available 
        for the purposes of the war risk revolving fund.
            ``(2) Fifty percent of the net funds recovered shall be 
        deposited in the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund as 
        established by section 50301(a) of this title and shall be 
        available until expended as follows:
                    ``(A) Fifty percent shall be available to the 
                Administrator of the Maritime Administration for such 
                acquisition, maintenance, repair, reconditioning, or 
                improvement of vessels in the National Defense Reserve 
                Fleet as is authorized under other Federal law.
                    ``(B) Twenty-five percent shall be available to the 
                Administrator of the Maritime Administration for the 
                payment or reimbursement of expenses incurred by or on 
                behalf of State maritime academies or the United States 
                Merchant Marine Academy for facility and training ship 
                maintenance, repair, and modernization, and for the 
                purchase of simulators and fuel.
                    ``(C) The remainder shall be distributed for 
                maritime heritage preservation to the Department of the 
                Interior for grants as authorized by section 308703 of 
                title 54.''.

SEC. 8520. PORT OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Ports 
Improvement Act''.
    (b) Port and Intermodal Improvement Program.--Section 50302 of 
title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (c) and 
inserting the following:
    ``(c) Port and Intermodal Improvement Program.--
            ``(1) General authority.--Subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, the Secretary of Transportation shall make 
        grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible applicants to 
        assist in funding eligible projects for the purpose of 
        improving the safety, efficiency, or reliability of the 
        movement of goods through ports and intermodal connections to 
        ports.
            ``(2) Eligible applicant.--The Secretary may make a grant 
        under this subsection to the following:
                    ``(A) A State.
                    ``(B) A political subdivision of a State, or a 
                local government.
                    ``(C) A public agency or publicly chartered 
                authority established by 1 or more States.
                    ``(D) A special purpose district with a 
                transportation function.
                    ``(E) An Indian Tribe (as defined in section 4 of 
                the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
                Act (25 U.S.C. 5304), without regard to 
                capitalization), or a consortium of Indian Tribes.
                    ``(F) A multistate or multijurisdictional group of 
                entities described in this paragraph.
                    ``(G) A lead entity described in subparagraph (A), 
                (B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) jointly with a private 
                entity or group of private entities.
            ``(3) Eligible projects.--The Secretary may make a grant 
        under this subsection--
                    ``(A) for a project, or package of projects, that--
                            ``(i) is either--
                                    ``(I) within the boundary of a 
                                port; or
                                    ``(II) outside the boundary of a 
                                port, but is directly related to port 
                                operations or to an intermodal 
                                connection to a port; and
                            ``(ii) will be used to improve the safety, 
                        efficiency, or reliability of--
                                    ``(I) the loading and unloading of 
                                goods at the port, such as for marine 
                                terminal equipment;
                                    ``(II) the movement of goods into, 
                                out of, around, or within a port, such 
                                as for highway or rail infrastructure, 
                                intermodal facilities, freight 
                                intelligent transportation systems, and 
                                digital infrastructure systems; or
                                    ``(III) environmental mitigation 
                                measures and operational improvements 
                                directly related to enhancing the 
                                efficiency of ports and intermodal 
                                connections to ports; or
                    ``(B) notwithstanding paragraph (6)(A)(v), to 
                provide financial assistance to 1 or more projects 
                under subparagraph (A) for development phase 
                activities, including planning, feasibility analysis, 
                revenue forecasting, environmental review, permitting, 
                and preliminary engineering and design work.
            ``(4) Prohibited uses.--A grant award under this subsection 
        may not be used--
                    ``(A) to finance or refinance the construction, 
                reconstruction, reconditioning, or purchase of a vessel 
                that is eligible for such assistance under chapter 537, 
                unless the Secretary determines such vessel--
                            ``(i) is necessary for a project described 
                        in paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(III) of this 
                        subsection; and
                            ``(ii) is not receiving assistance under 
                        chapter 537; or
                    ``(B) for any project within a small shipyard (as 
                defined in section 54101).
            ``(5) Applications and process.--
                    ``(A) Applications.--To be eligible for a grant 
                under this subsection, an eligible applicant shall 
                submit to the Secretary an application in such form, at 
                such time, and containing such information as the 
                Secretary considers appropriate.
                    ``(B) Solicitation process.--Not later than 60 days 
                after the date that amounts are made available for 
                grants under this subsection for a fiscal year, the 
                Secretary shall solicit grant applications for eligible 
                projects in accordance with this subsection.
            ``(6) Project selection criteria.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may select a 
                project described in paragraph (3) for funding under 
                this subsection if the Secretary determines that--
                            ``(i) the project improves the safety, 
                        efficiency, or reliability of the movement of 
                        goods through a port or intermodal connection 
                        to a port;
                            ``(ii) the project is cost effective;
                            ``(iii) the eligible applicant has 
                        authority to carry out the project;
                            ``(iv) the eligible applicant has 
                        sufficient funding available to meet the 
                        matching requirements under paragraph (8);
                            ``(v) the project will be completed without 
                        unreasonable delay; and
                            ``(vi) the project cannot be easily and 
                        efficiently completed without Federal funding 
                        or financial assistance available to the 
                        project sponsor.
                    ``(B) Additional considerations.--In selecting 
                projects described in paragraph (3) for funding under 
                this subsection, the Secretary shall give substantial 
                weight to--
                            ``(i) the utilization of non-Federal 
                        contributions;
                            ``(ii) the net benefits of the funds 
                        awarded under this subsection, considering the 
                        cost-benefit analysis of the project, as 
                        applicable; and
                            ``(iii) the public benefits of the funds 
                        awarded under this subsection.
                    ``(C) Small projects.--The Secretary may waive the 
                cost-benefit analysis under subparagraph (A)(ii), and 
                establish a simplified, alternative basis for 
                determining whether a project is cost effective, for a 
                small project described in paragraph (7)(B).
            ``(7) Allocation of funds.--
                    ``(A) Geographic distribution.--Not more than 25 
                percent of the amounts made available for grants under 
                this subsection for a fiscal year may be used to make 
                grants for projects in any 1 State.
                    ``(B) Small projects.--The Secretary shall reserve 
                25 percent of the amounts made available for grants 
                under this subsection each fiscal year to make grants 
                for eligible projects described in paragraph (3)(A) 
                that request the lesser of--
                            ``(i) 10 percent of the amounts made 
                        available for grants under this subsection for 
                        a fiscal year; or
                            ``(ii) $11,000,000.
                    ``(C) Development phase activities.--Not more than 
                10 percent of the amounts made available for grants 
                under this subsection for a fiscal year may be used to 
                make grants for development phase activities under 
                paragraph (3)(B).
            ``(8) Federal share of total project costs.--
                    ``(A) Total project costs.--To be eligible for a 
                grant under this subsection, an eligible applicant 
                shall submit to the Secretary an estimate of the total 
                costs of a project under this subsection based on the 
                best available information, including any available 
                engineering studies, studies of economic feasibility, 
                environmental analyses, and information on the expected 
                use of equipment or facilities.
                    ``(B) Federal share.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the Federal share of the total 
                        costs of a project under this subsection shall 
                        not exceed 80 percent.
                            ``(ii) Rural areas.--The Secretary may 
                        increase the Federal share of costs above 80 
                        percent for a project located in a rural area.
            ``(9) Procedural safeguards.--The Secretary shall issue 
        guidelines to establish appropriate accounting, reporting, and 
        review procedures to ensure that--
                    ``(A) grant funds are used for the purposes for 
                which those funds were made available;
                    ``(B) each grantee properly accounts for all 
                expenditures of grant funds; and
                    ``(C) grant funds not used for such purposes and 
                amounts not obligated or expended are returned.
            ``(10) Conditions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall require as a 
                condition of making a grant under this subsection that 
                a grantee--
                            ``(i) maintain such records as the 
                        Secretary considers necessary;
                            ``(ii) make the records described in clause 
                        (i) available for review and audit by the 
                        Secretary; and
                            ``(iii) periodically report to the 
                        Secretary such information as the Secretary 
                        considers necessary to assess progress.
                    ``(B) Labor.--The Federal wage rate requirements of 
                subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40 shall apply, in 
                the same manner as such requirements apply to contracts 
                subject to such subchapter, to--
                            ``(i) each project for which a grant is 
                        provided under this subsection; and
                            ``(ii) all portions of a project described 
                        in clause (i), regardless of whether such a 
                        portion is funded using--
                                    ``(I) other Federal funds; or
                                    ``(II) non-Federal funds.
            ``(11) Limitation on statutory construction.--Nothing in 
        this subsection shall be construed to affect existing 
        authorities to conduct port infrastructure programs in--
                    ``(A) Hawaii, as authorized by section 9008 of the 
                SAFETEA-LU Act (Public Law 109-59; 119 Stat. 1926);
                    ``(B) Alaska, as authorized by section 10205 of the 
                SAFETEA-LU Act (Public Law 109-59; 119 Stat. 1934); or
                    ``(C) Guam, as authorized by section 3512 of the 
                Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
                Fiscal Year 2009 (48 U.S.C. 1421r).
            ``(12) Administration.--
                    ``(A) Administrative and oversight costs.--The 
                Secretary may retain not more than 2 percent of the 
                amounts appropriated for each fiscal year under this 
                subsection for the administrative and oversight costs 
                incurred by the Secretary to carry out this subsection.
                    ``(B) Availability.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Amounts appropriated for 
                        carrying out this subsection shall remain 
                        available until expended.
                            ``(ii) Unexpended funds.--Amounts awarded 
                        as a grant under this subsection that are not 
                        expended by the grantee during the 5-year 
                        period following the date of the award shall 
                        remain available to the Secretary for use for 
                        grants under this subsection in a subsequent 
                        fiscal year.
            ``(13) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
                `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
                            ``(i) the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
                        and Transportation of the Senate; and
                            ``(ii) the Committee on Transportation and 
                        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
                    ``(B) Port.--The term `port' includes--
                            ``(i) a seaport; and
                            ``(ii) an inland waterways port.
                    ``(C) Project.--The term `project' includes 
                construction, reconstruction, environmental 
                rehabilitation, acquisition of property, including land 
                related to the project and improvements to the land, 
                equipment acquisition, and operational improvements.
                    ``(D) Rural area.--The term `rural area' means an 
                area that is outside an urbanized area.
    ``(d) Additional Authority of the Secretary.--In carrying out this 
section, the Secretary may--
            ``(1) receive funds from a Federal or non-Federal entity 
        that has a specific agreement with the Secretary to further the 
        purposes of this section;
            ``(2) coordinate with other Federal agencies to expedite 
        the process established under the National Environmental Policy 
        Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for the improvement of 
        port facilities to improve the efficiency of the transportation 
        system, to increase port security, or to provide greater access 
        to port facilities;
            ``(3) seek to coordinate all reviews or requirements with 
        appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies; and
            ``(4) in addition to any financial assistance provided 
        under subsection (c), provide such technical assistance to port 
        authorities or commissions or their subdivisions and agents as 
        needed for project planning, design, and construction.''.
    (c) Savings Clause.--A repeal made by subsection (b) of this 
section shall not affect amounts apportioned or allocated before the 
effective date of the repeal. Such apportioned or allocated funds shall 
continue to be subject to the requirements to which the funds were 
subject under section 50302(c) of title 46, United States Code, as in 
effect on the day before the date of enactment of this title.

SEC. 8521. ASSESSMENT AND REPORT ON STRATEGIC SEAPORTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this title, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on port facilities used for 
military purposes at ports designated by the Department of Defense as 
strategic seaports.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to port facilities included in the report, the following:
            (1) An assessment whether there are structural integrity or 
        other deficiencies in such facilities.
            (2) If there are such deficiencies--
                    (A) an assessment of infrastructure improvements to 
                such facilities that would be needed to meet, directly 
                or indirectly, national security and readiness 
                requirements;
                    (B) an assessment of the impact on operational 
                readiness of the Armed Forces if such improvements are 
                not undertaken; and
                    (C) an identification of, to the maximum extent 
                practical, all potential funding sources for such 
                improvements from existing authorities.
            (3) An identification of the support that would be 
        appropriate for the Department of Defense to provide in the 
        execution of the Secretary of Transportation's responsibilities 
        under section 50302 of title 46, United States Code, with 
        respect to such facilities.
            (4) If additional statutory or administrative authorities 
        would be required for the provision of support as described in 
        paragraph (3), recommendations for legislative or 
        administrative action to establish such authorities.
    (c) Consultation.--The Secretary of Defense shall prepare the 
report required by subsection (a) in consultation with the Maritime 
Administrator and the individual responsible for each port facility 
described in such subsection.

SEC. 8522. MARITIME TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    Section 50307 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``The Secretary of 
        Transportation may engage in the environmental study'' and 
        inserting ``The Maritime Administrator, on behalf of the 
        Secretary of Transportation, shall engage in the study'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``may'' and inserting ``shall''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``that are likely to achieve 
                        environmental improvements by'' and inserting 
                        ``to improve'';
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) 
                        through (C) as clauses (i) through (iii), 
                        respectively;
                            (iii) by inserting before clause (i), the 
                        following:
                    ``(A) environmental performance to meet United 
                States Federal and international standards and 
                guidelines, including--''; and
                            (iv) in clause (iii), as redesignated by 
                        clause (ii), by striking ``species; and'' and 
                        all that follows through the end of the 
                        subsection and inserting ``species; or
                            ``(iv) reducing propeller cavitation; and
                    ``(B) the efficiency and safety of domestic 
                maritime industries; and
            ``(2) coordinate with the Environmental Protection Agency, 
        the Coast Guard, and other Federal, State, local, or tribal 
        agencies, as appropriate.''.
            (3) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``benefits'' and 
        inserting ``or other benefits to domestic maritime 
        industries''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Limitations on the Use of Funds.--Not more than 3 percent of 
funds appropriated to carry out this program may be used for 
administrative purposes.''.

SEC. 8523. REQUIREMENT FOR SMALL SHIPYARD GRANTEES.

    Section 54101(d) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Grants awarded'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--Grants awarded''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Buy america.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), no 
                funds may be obligated by the Administrator of the 
                Maritime Administration under this section, unless each 
                product and material purchased with those funds 
                (including products and materials purchased by a 
                grantee), and including any commercially available off-
                the-shelf item, is--
                            ``(i) an unmanufactured article, material, 
                        or supply that has been mined or produced in 
                        the United States; or
                            ``(ii) a manufactured article, material, or 
                        supply that has been manufactured in the United 
                        States substantially all from articles, 
                        materials, or supplies mined, produced, or 
                        manufactured in the United States.
                    ``(B) Exceptions.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Notwithstanding 
                        subparagraph (A), the requirements of that 
                        subparagraph shall not apply with respect to a 
                        particular product or material if the 
                        Administrator determines--
                                    ``(I) that the application of those 
                                requirements would be inconsistent with 
                                the public interest;
                                    ``(II) that such product or 
                                material is not available in the United 
                                States in sufficient and reasonably 
                                available quantities, of a satisfactory 
                                quality, or on a timely basis; or
                                    ``(III) that inclusion of a 
                                domestic product or material will 
                                increase the cost of that product or 
                                material by more than 25 percent, with 
                                respect to a certain contract between a 
                                grantee and that grantee's supplier.
                            ``(ii) Federal register.--A determination 
                        made by the Administrator under this 
                        subparagraph shall be published in the Federal 
                        Register.
                    ``(C) Definitions.--ln this paragraph:
                            ``(i) The term `commercially available off-
                        the-shelf item' means--
                                    ``(I) any item of supply (including 
                                construction material) that is--
                                            ``(aa) a commercial item, 
                                        as defined by section 2.101 of 
                                        title 48, Code of Federal 
                                        Regulations (as in effect on 
                                        the date of enactment of the 
                                        Maritime Administration 
                                        Authorization and Enhancement 
                                        Act of 2019); and
                                            ``(bb) sold in substantial 
                                        quantities in the commercial 
                                        marketplace; and
                                    ``(II) does not include bulk cargo, 
                                as defined in section 40102(4) of this 
                                title, such as agricultural products 
                                and petroleum products.
                            ``(ii) The term `product or material' means 
                        an article, material, or supply brought to the 
                        site by the recipient for incorporation into 
                        the building, work, or project. The term also 
                        includes an item brought to the site 
                        preassembled from articles, materials, or 
                        supplies. However, emergency life safety 
                        systems, such as emergency lighting, fire 
                        alarm, and audio evacuation systems, that are 
                        discrete systems incorporated into a public 
                        building or work and that are produced as 
                        complete systems, are evaluated as a single and 
                        distinct construction material regardless of 
                        when or how the individual parts or components 
                        of those systems are delivered to the 
                        construction site.
                            ``(iii) The term `United States' includes 
                        the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
                        Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, 
                        Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin 
                        Islands.''.

SEC. 8524. IMPROVEMENT OF NATIONAL OCEANOGRAPHIC PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) Additional Means of Achievement of Goals of Program Through 
Oceanographic Efforts.--Section 8931(b)(2)(A) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``, creating,'' after ``identifying''; and
            (2) by inserting ``science,'' after ``areas of''.
    (b) National Ocean Research Leadership Council Membership.--Section 
8932 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (f) through (h) as 
        subsections (g) through (i), respectively;
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (10);
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (11) through (14) 
                as paragraphs (12) through (15), respectively; and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following 
                new paragraphs:
            ``(10) The Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy 
        Management of the Department of the Interior.
            ``(11) The Director of the Bureau of Safety and 
        Environmental Enforcement of the Department of the Interior.'';
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``broad participation within the oceanographic 
                        community'' and inserting ``appropriate 
                        participation within the oceanographic 
                        community, which may include public, academic, 
                        commercial, and private participation or 
                        support''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking 
                        ``peer''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking subparagraph (D) 
                and inserting the following:
                    ``(D) Preexisting facilities, such as regional data 
                centers operated by the Integrated Ocean Observing 
                System, and expertise.'';
            (4) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading by striking 
                ``Report'' and inserting ``Briefing'';
                    (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``to Congress a report'' and inserting ``to 
                the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
                of the Senate, the Committee on Armed Services of the 
                Senate, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate, the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
                Armed Services of the House of Representatives a 
                briefing'';
                    (C) by striking ``report'' and inserting 
                ``briefing'' each place the term appears;
                    (D) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(4) A description of the involvement of Federal agencies 
        and non-Federal contributors participating in the program.''; 
        and
                    (E) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and the 
                estimated expenditures under such programs, projects, 
                and activities during such following fiscal year'' and 
                inserting ``and the estimated expenditures under such 
                programs, projects, and activities of the program 
                during such following fiscal year'';
            (5) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
    ``(f) Report.--Not later than March 1 of each year, the Council 
shall publish on a publically available website a report summarizing 
the briefing described in subsection (e).'';
            (6) in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(1) The Secretary of the Navy shall establish an office 
        to support the National Oceanographic Partnership Program. The 
        Council shall use competitive procedures in selecting an 
        operator for the partnership program office.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ``, where 
                appropriate,'' before ``managing''; and
            (7) by amending subsection (h), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1), to read as follows:
    ``(h) Contract and Grant Authority.--
            ``(1) In general.--To carry out the purposes of the 
        National Oceanographic Partnership Program, the Council shall 
        have, in addition to other powers otherwise given it under this 
        chapter, the following authorities:
                    ``(A) To authorize one or more of the departments 
                or agencies represented on the Council to enter into 
                contracts and make grants or cooperative agreements, 
                and establish and manage new collaborative programs as 
                considered appropriate, to address emerging science 
                priorities using both donated and appropriated funds.
                    ``(B) To authorize the program office under 
                subsection (g), on behalf of and subject to the 
                direction and approval of the Council, to accept funds, 
                including fines and penalties, from other Federal and 
                State departments and agencies.
                    ``(C) To authorize the program office, on behalf of 
                and subject to the direction and approval of the 
                Council, to award grants and enter into contracts for 
                purposes of the National Oceanographic Partnership 
                Program.
                    ``(D) To transfer funds to other Federal and State 
                departments and agencies in furtherance of the purposes 
                of the National Oceanographic Partnership Program.
                    ``(E) To authorize one or more of the departments 
                or agencies represented on the Council to enter into 
                contracts and make grants, for the purpose of 
                implementing the National Oceanographic Partnership 
                Program and carrying out the responsibilities of the 
                Council.
                    ``(F) To use, with the consent of the head of the 
                agency or entity concerned, on a non-reimbursable 
                basis, the land, services, equipment, personnel, 
                facilities, advice, and information provided by a 
                Federal agency or entity, State, local government, 
                Tribal government, territory, or possession, or any 
                subdivisions thereof, or the District of Columbia as 
                may be helpful in the performance of the duties of the 
                Council.
            ``(2) Funds transferred.--Funds identified for direct 
        support of National Oceanographic Partnership Program grants 
        are authorized for transfer between agencies and are exempt 
        from section 1535 of title 31 (commonly known as the ``Economy 
        Act of 1932'').''.
    (c) Ocean Research Advisory Panel.--Section 8933(a)(4) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``State governments'' and 
inserting ``State and Tribal governments''.

SEC. 8525. IMPROVEMENTS TO THE MARITIME GUARANTEED LOAN PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 53701 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (5);
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through (15) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (14), respectively; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(15) Vessel of national interest.--The term `Vessel of 
        National Interest' means a vessel deemed to be of national 
        interest that meets characteristics determined by the 
        Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, 
        the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard 
        Operates, or the heads of other Federal agencies, as described 
        in section 53703(d).''.
    (b) Preferred Lender.--Section 53702(a) of title 46, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Preferred eligible lender.--The Federal Financing 
        Bank shall be the preferred eligible lender of the principal 
        and interest of the guaranteed obligations issued under this 
        chapter.''.
    (c) Application and Administration.--Section 53703 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``procedures'' and 
        inserting ``and administration'';
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Independent Analysis.--
            ``(1) In general.--To assess and mitigate the risks due to 
        factors associated with markets, technology, financial, or 
        legal structures related to an application or guarantee under 
        this chapter, the Secretary or Administrator may utilize third 
        party experts, including legal counsel, to--
                    ``(A) process and review applications under this 
                chapter, including conducting independent analysis and 
                review of aspects of an application;
                    ``(B) represent the Secretary or Administrator in 
                structuring and documenting the obligation guarantee;
                    ``(C) analyze and review aspects of, structure, and 
                document the obligation guarantee during the term of 
                the guarantee;
                    ``(D) recommend financial covenants or financial 
                ratios to be met by the applicant during the time a 
                guarantee under this chapter is outstanding that are--
                            ``(i) based on the financial covenants or 
                        financial ratios, if any, that are then 
                        applicable to the obligor under private sector 
                        credit agreements; and
                            ``(ii) in lieu of other financial covenants 
                        applicable to the obligor under this chapter 
                        with respect to requirements regarding long-
                        term debt-to-equity, minimum working capital, 
                        or minimum amount of equity; and
                    ``(E) represent the Secretary or Administrator to 
                protect the security interests of the Government 
                relating to an obligation guarantee.
            ``(2) Private sector expert.--Independent analysis, review, 
        and representation conducted under this subsection shall be 
        performed by a private sector expert in the applicable field 
        who is selected by the Secretary or Administrator.
    ``(d) Vessels of National Interest.--
            ``(1) Notice of funding.--The Secretary or Administrator 
        may post a notice in the Federal Register regarding the 
        availability of funding for obligation guarantees under this 
        chapter for the construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning 
        of a Vessel of National Interest and include a timeline for the 
        submission of applications for such vessels.
            ``(2) Vessel characteristics.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary or Administrator, 
                in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the 
                Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard 
                Operates, or the heads of other Federal agencies, shall 
                develop and publish a list of vessel types that would 
                be considered Vessels of National Interest.
                    ``(B) Review.--Such list shall be reviewed and 
                revised every 4 years or as necessary, as determined by 
                the Administrator.''.
    (d) Funding Limits.--Section 53704 of title 46, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``that amount'' and all the follows 
                through ``$850,000,000'' and inserting ``that amount, 
                $850,000,000''; and
                    (B) by striking ``facilities'' and all that follows 
                through the end of the subsection and inserting 
                ``facilities.''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(4)--
                    (A) by striking subparagraph (A); and
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (K), 
                as subparagraphs (A) through (J), respectively.
    (e) Eligible Purposes of Obligations.--Section 53706 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)(A)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
                ``(including an eligible export vessel);''
                    (B) in clause (iv) by adding ``or'' after the 
                semicolon;
                    (C) in clause (v), by striking ``; or'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (D) by striking clause (vi); and
            (2) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking the period 
                at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) after applying subparagraphs (A) and (B), 
                Vessels of National Interest.''.
    (f) Amount of Obligations.--Section 53709(b) of title 46, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraphs (3) and (6); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively.
    (g) Contents of Obligations.--Section 53710 of title 46, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(4)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``or, in the case of'' and 
                        all that follows through ``party''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``and'' after the 
                        semicolon; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) documented under the laws of the United 
                States for the term of the guarantee of the obligation 
                or until the obligation is paid in full, whichever is 
                sooner.''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and 
                Provide for the Financial Stability of the Obligor'' 
                after ``Interests'';
                    (B) by striking ``provisions for the protection 
                of'' and inserting ``provisions, which shall include--
            ``(1) provisions for the protection of'';
                    (C) by striking ``, and other matters that the 
                Secretary or Administrator may prescribe.'' and 
                inserting, ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) any other provisions that the Secretary or 
        Administrator may prescribe.''.
    (h) Administrative Fees.--Section 53713 of title 46, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding     paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``reasonable for--'' and inserting `` 
                reasonable for processing the application and 
                monitoring the loan guarantee, including for--'';
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting ``or a deposit fund under section 53716 of 
                this title;'';
                    (C) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) monitoring and providing services related to the 
        obligor's compliance with any terms related to the obligations, 
        the guarantee, or maintenance of the Secretary or 
        Administrator's security interests under this chapter.''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``under section 
                53708(d) of this title'' and inserting ``under section 
                53703(c) of this title'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C), respectively;
                    (C) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Fee limitation inapplicable.--Fees collected under 
        this subsection are not subject to the limitation of subsection 
        (b).''.
    (i) Best Practices; Eligible Export Vessels.--Chapter 537 of title 
46, United States Code, is further amended--
            (1) in subchapter I, by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 53719. Best practices
    ``The Secretary or Administrator shall ensure that all standard 
documents and agreements that relate to loan guarantees made pursuant 
to this chapter are reviewed and updated every four years to ensure 
that such documents and agreements meet the current commercial best 
practices to the extent permitted by law.''; and
            (2) in subchapter III, by striking section 53732.
    (j) Express Consideration of Low-risk Applications.--Not later than 
180 days after the date of enactment of this title, the Administrator 
of the Maritime Administration shall, in consultation with affected 
stakeholders, create a process for express processing of low-risk 
maritime guaranteed loan applications under chapter 537 of title 46, 
United States Code, based on Federal and industry best practices, 
including proposals to better assist applicants to submit complete 
applications within 6 months of the initial application.
    (k) Congressional Notification.--
            (1) Notification.--Not less than 60 days before 
        reorganizing or consolidating the activities or personnel 
        covered under chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, the 
        Secretary of Transportation shall notify, in writing, the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
        of the House of Representatives of the proposed reorganization 
        or consolidation.
            (2) Contents.--Each notification under paragraph (1) shall 
        include an evaluation of, and justification for, the 
        reorganization or consolidation.
    (l) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 537 
        of title 46, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
        the item relating to section 53718 the following new item:

``53719. Best practices.''.
            (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 537 
        of title 46, United States Code, is further amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 53732.

SEC. 8526. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    (a) Office of Personnel Management Guidance.--Not later than 120 
days after the date of enactment of this title, the Director of the 
Office of Personnel Management, in consultation with the Administrator 
of the Maritime Administration, shall identify key skills and 
competencies necessary to maintain a balance of expertise in merchant 
marine seagoing service and strategic sealift military service in each 
of the following positions within the Office of the Commandant:
            (1) Commandant.
            (2) Deputy Commandant.
            (3) Tactical company officers.
            (4) Regimental officers.
    (b) Sea Year Compliance.--Section 3514(a)(1)(A) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 46 
U.S.C. 51318 note) is amended by inserting ``domestic and 
international'' after ``criteria that''.

SEC. 8527. UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY'S SEXUAL ASSAULT 
              PREVENTION AND RESPONSE PROGRAM.

    (a) Implementation of Recommendations.--The Secretary of 
Transportation shall ensure that, not later than 180 days after the 
date of enactment of this title, the recommendations in the Inspector 
General of the Department of Transportation's report on the 
effectiveness of the United States Merchant Marine Academy's Sexual 
Assault Prevention and Response program (mandated under section 3512 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
114-328; 130 Stat. 2786)), are fully implemented.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this title, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit a report to 
Congress--
            (1) confirming that the recommendations described in 
        subsection (a) have been fully implemented, and explaining how 
        those recommendations have been implemented; or
            (2) if such recommendations have not been fully implemented 
        as of the date of the report, including an explanation of why 
        such recommendations have not been fully implemented and a 
        description of the resources that are needed to fully implement 
        such recommendations.

SEC. 8528. REPORT ON VESSELS FOR EMERGING OFFSHORE ENERGY 
              INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of the Interior, and the 
heads of other relevant agencies as appropriate, shall prepare and 
submit a report on the need for vessels to install, operate, and 
maintain emerging offshore energy infrastructure, including offshore 
wind energy.
    (b) Contents.--Such report shall include--
            (1) an inventory of vessels (including existing vessels and 
        vessels that have the potential to be refurbished) to install, 
        operate, and maintain such emerging offshore energy 
        infrastructure;
            (2) a projection of existing vessels needed to meet such 
        emerging offshore energy needs over the next 10 years; and
            (3) policy recommendations to ensure the vessel capacity to 
        support such emerging offshore energy.
    (c) Transmittal.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this title, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit 
such report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
House of Representatives.

                     Subtitle B--Maritime SAFE Act

SEC. 8531. SHORT TITLES.

    (a) Short Titles.--This subtitle may be cited as the ``Maritime 
Security and Fisheries Enforcement Act'' or the ``Maritime SAFE Act''.

SEC. 8532. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) AIS.--The term ``AIS'' means Automatic Identification 
        System (as defined in section 164.46 of title 33, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, or a similar successor regulation).
            (2) Combined maritime forces.--The term ``Combined Maritime 
        Forces'' means the 33-nation naval partnership, originally 
        established in February 2002, which promotes security, 
        stability, and prosperity across approximately 3,200,000 square 
        miles of international waters.
            (3) Exclusive economic zone.--
                    (A) In general.--Unless otherwise specified by the 
                President as being in the public interest in a writing 
                published in the Federal Register, the term ``exclusive 
                economic zone'' means--
                            (i) the area within a zone established by a 
                        maritime boundary that has been established by 
                        a treaty in force or a treaty that is being 
                        provisionally applied by the United States; or
                            (ii) in the absence of a treaty described 
                        in clause (i)--
                                    (I) a zone, the outer boundary of 
                                which is 200 nautical miles from the 
                                baseline from which the breadth of the 
                                territorial sea is measured; or
                                    (II) if the distance between the 
                                United States and another country is 
                                less than 400 nautical miles, a zone, 
                                the outer boundary of which is 
                                represented by a line equidistant 
                                between the United States and the other 
                                country.
                    (B) Inner boundary.--Without affecting any 
                Presidential Proclamation with regard to the 
                establishment of the United States territorial sea or 
                exclusive economic zone, the inner boundary of the 
                exclusive economic zone is--
                            (i) in the case of coastal States, a line 
                        coterminous with the seaward boundary of each 
                        such State (as described in section 4 of the 
                        Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1312));
                            (ii) in the case of the Commonwealth of 
                        Puerto Rico, a line that is 3 marine leagues 
                        from the coastline of the Commonwealth of 
                        Puerto Rico;
                            (iii) in the case of American Samoa, the 
                        United States Virgin Islands, Guam, and the 
                        Northern Mariana Islands, a line that is 3 
                        geographic miles from the coastlines of 
                        American Samoa, the United States Virgin 
                        Islands, Guam, or the Northern Mariana Islands, 
                        respectively; or
                            (iv) for any possession of the United 
                        States not referred to in clause (ii) or (iii), 
                        the coastline of such possession.
                    (C) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this 
                paragraph may be construed to diminish the authority of 
                the Department of Defense, the Department of the 
                Interior, or any other Federal department or agency.
            (4) Food security.--The term ``food security'' means access 
        to, and availability, utilization, and stability of, sufficient 
        food to meet caloric and nutritional needs for an active and 
        healthy life.
            (5) Global record of fishing vessels, refrigerated 
        transport vessels, and supply vessels.--The term ``global 
        record of fishing vessels, refrigerated transport vessels, and 
        supply vessels'' means the Food and Agriculture Organization of 
        the United Nations' initiative to rapidly make available 
        certified data from state authorities about vessels and vessel 
        related activities.
            (6) IUU fishing.--The term ``IUU fishing'' means illegal 
        fishing, unreported fishing, or unregulated fishing (as such 
        terms are defined in paragraph 3 of the International Plan of 
        Action to Prevent, Deter, and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and 
        Unregulated Fishing, adopted at the 24th Session of the 
        Committee on Fisheries in Rome on March 2, 2001).
            (7) Port state measures agreement.--The term ``Port State 
        Measures Agreement'' means the Agreement on Port State Measures 
        to Prevent, Deter, and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported, and 
        Unregulated Fishing set forth by the Food and Agriculture 
        Organization of the United Nations, done at Rome, Italy 
        November 22, 2009, and entered into force June 5, 2016, which 
        offers standards for reporting and inspecting fishing 
        activities of foreign-flagged fishing vessels at port.
            (8) Priority flag state.--The term ``priority flag state'' 
        means a country selected in accordance with section 
        8552(b)(3)--
                    (A) whereby the flagged vessels of which actively 
                engage in, knowingly profit from, or are complicit in 
                IUU fishing; and
                    (B) that is willing, but lacks the capacity, to 
                monitor or take effective enforcement action against 
                its fleet.
            (9) Priority region.--The term ``priority region'' means a 
        region selected in accordance with section 8552(b)(2)--
                    (A) that is at high risk for IUU fishing activity 
                or the entry of illegally caught seafood into the 
                markets of countries in the region; and
                    (B) in which countries lack the capacity to fully 
                address the illegal activity described in subparagraph 
                (A).
            (10) Regional fisheries management organization.--The term 
        ``Regional Fisheries Management Organization'' means an 
        intergovernmental fisheries organization or arrangement, as 
        appropriate, that has the competence to establish conservation 
        and management measures.
            (11) Seafood.--The term ``seafood''--
                    (A) means marine finfish, mollusks, crustaceans, 
                and all other forms of marine animal and plant life, 
                including those grown, produced, or reared through 
                marine aquaculture operations or techniques; and
                    (B) does not include marine mammals, turtles, or 
                birds.
            (12) Transnational organized illegal activity.--The term 
        ``transnational organized illegal activity'' means criminal 
        activity conducted by self-perpetuating associations of 
        individuals who operate transnationally for the purpose of 
        obtaining power, influence, or monetary or commercial gains, 
        wholly or in part by illegal means, while protecting their 
        activities through a pattern of corruption or violence or 
        through a transnational organizational structure and the 
        exploitation of transnational commerce or communication 
        mechanisms.
            (13) Transshipment.--The term ``transshipment'' means the 
        use of refrigerated vessels that--
                    (A) collect catch from multiple fishing boats;
                    (B) carry the accumulated catches back to port; and
                    (C) deliver supplies to fishing boats, which allows 
                fishing vessels to remain at sea for extended periods 
                without coming into port.

SEC. 8533. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this subtitle are--
            (1) to support a whole-of-government approach across the 
        Federal Government to counter IUU fishing and related threats 
        to maritime security;
            (2) to improve data sharing that enhances surveillance, 
        enforcement, and prosecution against IUU fishing and related 
        activities at a global level;
            (3) to support coordination and collaboration to counter 
        IUU fishing within priority regions;
            (4) to increase and improve global transparency and 
        traceability across the seafood supply chain as--
                    (A) a deterrent to IUU fishing; and
                    (B) a tool for strengthening fisheries management 
                and food security;
            (5) to improve global enforcement operations against IUU 
        fishing through a whole-of-government approach by the United 
        States; and
            (6) to prevent the use of IUU fishing as a financing source 
        for transnational organized groups that undermine United States 
        and global security interests.

SEC. 8534. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States_
            (1) to take action to curtail the global trade in seafood 
        and seafood products derived from IUU fishing, including its 
        links to forced labor and transnational organized illegal 
        activity;
            (2) to develop holistic diplomatic, military, law 
        enforcement, economic, and capacity-building tools to counter 
        IUU fishing;
            (3) to provide technical assistance to countries in 
        priority regions and priority flag states to combat IUU 
        fishing, including assistance--
                    (A) to increase local, national, and regional level 
                capacities to counter IUU fishing through the 
                engagement of law enforcement and security forces;
                    (B) to enhance port capacity and security, 
                including by supporting other countries in working 
                toward the adoption and implementation of the Port 
                State Measures Agreement;
                    (C) to combat corruption and increase transparency 
                and traceability in fisheries management and trade;
                    (D) to enhance information sharing within and 
                across governments and multilateral organizations 
                through the development and use of agreed standards for 
                information sharing; and
                    (E) to support effective, science-based fisheries 
                management regimes that promote legal and safe 
                fisheries and act as a deterrent to IUU fishing;
            (4) to promote global maritime security through improved 
        capacity and technological assistance to support improved 
        maritime domain awareness;
            (5) to engage with priority flag states to encourage the 
        use of high quality vessel tracking technologies where existing 
        enforcement tools are lacking;
            (6) to engage with multilateral organizations working on 
        fisheries issues, including Regional Fisheries Management 
        Organizations and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the 
        United Nations, to combat and deter IUU fishing;
            (7) to advance information sharing across governments and 
        multilateral organizations in areas that cross multiple 
        jurisdictions, through the development and use of an agreed 
        standard for information sharing;
            (8) to continue to use existing and future trade agreements 
        to combat IUU fishing;
            (9) to employ appropriate assets and resources of the 
        United States Government in a coordinated manner to disrupt the 
        illicit networks involved in IUU fishing;
            (10) to continue to declassify and make available, as 
        appropriate and practicable, technologies developed by the 
        United States Government that can be used to help counter IUU 
        fishing;
            (11) to recognize the ties of IUU fishing to transnational 
        organized illegal activity, including human trafficking and 
        illegal trade in narcotics and arms, and as applicable, to 
        focus on illicit activity in a coordinated, cross-cutting 
        manner;
            (12) to recognize and respond to poor working conditions, 
        labor abuses, and other violent crimes in the fishing industry;
            (13) to increase and improve global transparency and 
        traceability along the seafood supply chain as--
                    (A) a deterrent to IUU fishing; and
                    (B) an approach for strengthening fisheries 
                management and food security; and
            (14) to promote technological investment and innovation to 
        combat IUU fishing.

 PART I--PROGRAMS TO COMBAT IUU FISHING AND INCREASE MARITIME SECURITY

SEC. 8541. COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    The Secretary of State, in conjunction with the Secretary of 
Commerce, shall coordinate with Regional Fisheries Management 
Organizations and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations, and may coordinate with other relevant international 
governmental or nongovernmental organizations, or the private sector, 
as appropriate, to enhance regional responses to IUU fishing and 
related transnational organized illegal activities.

SEC. 8542. ENGAGEMENT OF DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS OF THE UNITED STATES.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this 
title, each chief of mission (as defined in section 102 of the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3902)) to a relevant country in a 
priority region or to a priority flag state may, if the Secretary of 
State determines such action is appropriate--
            (1) convene a working group, led by Department of State 
        officials, to examine IUU fishing, which may include 
        stakeholders such as--
                    (A) United States officials from relevant agencies 
                participating in the interagency Working Group 
                identified in section 8551, foreign officials, 
                nongovernmental organizations, the private sector, and 
                representatives of local fishermen in the region; and
                    (B) experts on IUU fishing, law enforcement, 
                criminal justice, transnational organized illegal 
                activity, defense, intelligence, vessel movement 
                monitoring, and international development operating in 
                or with knowledge of the region; and
            (2) designate a counter-IUU Fishing Coordinator from among 
        existing personnel at the mission if the chief of mission 
        determines such action is appropriate.

SEC. 8543. ASSISTANCE BY FEDERAL AGENCIES TO IMPROVE LAW ENFORCEMENT 
              WITHIN PRIORITY REGIONS AND PRIORITY FLAG STATES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, in collaboration with the 
Secretary of Commerce and the Commandant of the Coast Guard when the 
Coast Guard is operating in, or as a component of, the Department of 
Homeland Security, as well as any other relevant department or agency, 
shall provide assistance, as appropriate, in accordance with this 
section.
    (b) Law Enforcement Training and Coordination Activities.--The 
officials referred to in subsection (a) shall evaluate opportunities to 
provide assistance, as appropriate, to countries in priority regions 
and priority flag states to improve the effectiveness of IUU fishing 
enforcement, with clear and measurable targets and indicators of 
success, including--
            (1) by assessing and using existing resources, enforcement 
        tools, and legal authorities to coordinate efforts to combat 
        IUU fishing with efforts to combat other illegal trade, 
        including weapons, drugs, and human trafficking;
            (2) by expanding existing IUU fishing enforcement training;
            (3) by providing targeted, country- and region-specific 
        training on combating IUU fishing, including in those countries 
        that have not adopted the Port State Measures Agreement;
            (4) by supporting increased effectiveness and transparency 
        of the fisheries enforcement sectors of the governments of such 
        countries; and
            (5) by supporting increased outreach to stakeholders in the 
        affected communities as key partners in combating and 
        prosecuting IUU fishing.
    (c) Port Security Assistance.--The officials referred to in 
subsection (a) shall evaluate opportunities to provide assistance, as 
appropriate, to countries in priority regions and priority flag states 
to help those states implement programs related to port security and 
capacity for the purposes of preventing IUU fishing products from 
entering the global seafood market, including by supporting other 
countries in working toward the adoption and implementation of the Port 
State Measures Agreement.
    (d) Capacity Building for Investigations and Prosecutions.--The 
officials referred to in subsection (a), in collaboration with the 
governments of countries in priority regions and of priority flag 
states, shall evaluate opportunities to assist those countries in 
designing and implementing programs in such countries, as appropriate, 
to increase the capacity of IUU fishing enforcement and customs and 
border security officers to improve their ability--
            (1) to conduct effective investigations, including using 
        law enforcement techniques such as undercover investigations 
        and the development of informer networks and actionable 
        intelligence;
            (2) to conduct vessel boardings and inspections at sea and 
        associated enforcement actions;
            (3) to exercise existing shiprider agreements and to enter 
        into and implement new shiprider agreements, as appropriate, 
        including in those countries that have not adopted the Port 
        State Measures Agreement;
            (4) to conduct vessel inspections at port and associated 
        enforcement actions;
            (5) to assess technology needs and promote the use of 
        technology to improve monitoring, enforcement, and prosecution 
        of IUU fishing;
            (6) to conduct DNA-based and forensic identification of 
        seafood used in trade;
            (7) to conduct training on techniques, such as collecting 
        electronic evidence and using computer forensics, for law 
        enforcement personnel involved in complex investigations 
        related to international matters, financial issues, and 
        government corruption that include IUU fishing;
            (8) to assess financial flows and the use of financial 
        institutions to launder profits related to IUU fishing;
            (9) to conduct training on the legal mechanisms that can be 
        used to prosecute those identified in the investigations as 
        alleged perpetrators of IUU fishing and other associated crimes 
        such as trafficking and forced labor; and
            (10) to conduct training to raise awareness of the use of 
        whistleblower information and ways to incentivize 
        whistleblowers to come forward with original information 
        related to IUU fishing.
    (e) Capacity Building for Information Sharing.--The officials 
referred to in subsection (a) shall evaluate opportunities to provide 
assistance, as appropriate, to key countries in priority regions and 
priority flag states in the form of training, equipment, and systems 
development to build capacity for information sharing related to 
maritime enforcement and port security.
    (f) Coordination With Other Relevant Agencies.--The Secretary of 
State, in collaboration with the Commandant of the Coast Guard when the 
Coast Guard is operating in, or as a component of, the Department of 
Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Commerce, shall coordinate with 
other relevant agencies, as appropriate, in accordance with this 
section.

SEC. 8544. EXPANSION OF EXISTING MECHANISMS TO COMBAT IUU FISHING.

    The Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development, the Commandant of the Coast Guard 
when the Coast Guard is operating in, or as a component of, the 
Department of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Defense, the 
Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney General, and the heads of other 
appropriate Federal agencies shall assess opportunities to combat IUU 
fishing by expanding, as appropriate, the use of the following 
mechanisms:
            (1) Including counter-IUU fishing in existing shiprider 
        agreements in which the United States is a party.
            (2) Entering into shiprider agreements that include 
        counter-IUU fishing with priority flag states and countries in 
        priority regions with which the United States does not already 
        have such an agreement.
            (3) Including counter-IUU fishing as part of the mission of 
        the Combined Maritime Forces.
            (4) Including counter-IUU fishing exercises in the annual 
        at-sea exercises conducted by the Department of Defense, in 
        coordination with the United States Coast Guard.
            (5) Creating partnerships similar to the Oceania Maritime 
        Security Initiative and the Africa Maritime Law Enforcement 
        Partnership in other priority regions.

SEC. 8545. IMPROVEMENT OF TRANSPARENCY AND TRACEABILITY PROGRAMS.

    The Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development, the Commandant of the Coast Guard 
when the Coast Guard is operating in, or as a component of, the 
Department of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Commerce, and the 
heads of other Federal agencies, if merited, shall work, as 
appropriate, with priority flag states and key countries in priority 
regions--
            (1) to increase knowledge within such countries about the 
        United States transparency and traceability standards for 
        imports of seafood and seafood products;
            (2) to improve the capacity of seafood industries within 
        such countries through information sharing and training to meet 
        the requirements of transparency and traceability standards for 
        seafood and seafood product imports, including catch 
        documentation and trade tracking programs adopted by relevant 
        regional fisheries management organizations;
            (3) to improve the capacities of government, industry, and 
        civil society groups to develop and implement comprehensive 
        traceability systems that--
                    (A) deter IUU fishing;
                    (B) strengthen fisheries management; and
                    (C) enhance maritime domain awareness; and
            (4) to support the implementation of seafood traceability 
        standards in such countries to prevent IUU fishing products 
        from entering the global seafood market and assess capacity and 
        training needs in those countries.

SEC. 8546. TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS.

    The Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development, the Commandant of the Coast Guard 
when the Coast Guard is operating in, or as a component of, the 
Department of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Defense, the 
Secretary of Commerce, and the heads of other Federal agencies, as 
appropriate, shall pursue programs to expand the role of technology for 
combating IUU fishing, including by--
            (1) promoting the use of technology to combat IUU fishing;
            (2) assessing the technology needs, including vessel 
        tracking technologies and data sharing, in priority regions and 
        priority flag states;
            (3) engaging with priority flag states to encourage the 
        mandated use of vessel tracking technologies, including vessel 
        monitoring systems, AIS, or other vessel movement monitoring 
        technologies on fishing vessels and transshipment vessels at 
        all times, as appropriate, while at sea as a means to identify 
        IUU fishing activities and the shipment of illegally caught 
        fish products; and
            (4) building partnerships with the private sector, 
        including universities, nonprofit research organizations, the 
        seafood industry, and the technology, transportation and 
        logistics sectors, to leverage new and existing technologies 
        and data analytics to address IUU fishing.

SEC. 8547. SAVINGS CLAUSE.

    No provision of section 8532 or of this part shall impose, or be 
interpreted to impose, any duty, responsibility, requirement, or 
obligation on the Department of Defense, the Department of the Navy, or 
any official or component of either.

   PART II--ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON IUU FISHING

SEC. 8551. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON IUU FISHING.

    (a) In General.--There is established a collaborative interagency 
working group on maritime security and IUU fishing (referred to in this 
subtitle as the ``Working Group'').
    (b) Members.--The members of the Working Group shall be composed 
of--
            (1) 1 chair, who shall rotate between the Coast Guard, the 
        Department of State, and the National Oceanographic and 
        Atmospheric Administration on a 3-year term;
            (2) 2 deputy chairs, who shall be appointed by their 
        respective agency heads and shall be from a different 
        Department than that of the chair, from--
                    (A) the Coast Guard;
                    (B) the Department of State; and
                    (C) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration;
            (3) 11 members, who shall be appointed by their respective 
        agency heads, from--
                    (A) the Department of Defense;
                    (B) the United States Navy;
                    (C) the United States Agency for International 
                Development;
                    (D) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
                    (E) the Department of Justice;
                    (F) the Department of the Treasury;
                    (G) U.S. Customs and Border Protection;
                    (H) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement;
                    (I) the Federal Trade Commission;
                    (J) the Department of Agriculture;
                    (K) the Food and Drug Administration; and
                    (L) the Department of Labor;
            (4) 5 members, who shall be appointed by the President, 
        from--
                    (A) the National Security Council;
                    (B) the Council on Environmental Quality;
                    (C) the Office of Management and Budget;
                    (D) the Office of Science and Technology Policy; 
                and
                    (E) the Office of the United States Trade 
                Representative.
    (c) Responsibilities.--The Working Group shall ensure an 
integrated, Federal Government-wide response to IUU fishing globally, 
including by--
            (1) improving the coordination of Federal agencies to 
        identify, interdict, investigate, prosecute, and dismantle IUU 
        fishing operations and organizations perpetrating and knowingly 
        benefitting from IUU fishing;
            (2) assessing areas for increased interagency information 
        sharing on matters related to IUU fishing and related crimes;
            (3) establishing standards for information sharing related 
        to maritime enforcement;
            (4) developing a strategy to determine how military assets 
        and intelligence can contribute to enforcement strategies to 
        combat IUU fishing;
            (5) increasing maritime domain awareness relating to IUU 
        fishing and related crimes and developing a strategy to 
        leverage awareness for enhanced enforcement and prosecution 
        actions against IUU fishing;
            (6) supporting the adoption and implementation of the Port 
        State Measures Agreement in relevant countries and assessing 
        the capacity and training needs in such countries;
            (7) outlining a strategy to coordinate, increase, and use 
        shiprider agreements between the Department of Defense or the 
        Coast Guard and relevant countries;
            (8) enhancing cooperation with partner governments to 
        combat IUU fishing;
            (9) identifying opportunities for increased information 
        sharing between Federal agencies and partner governments 
        working to combat IUU fishing;
            (10) consulting and coordinating with the seafood industry 
        and nongovernmental stakeholders that work to combat IUU 
        fishing;
            (11) supporting the work of collaborative international 
        initiatives to make available certified data from state 
        authorities about vessel and vessel-related activities related 
        to IUU fishing;
            (12) supporting the identification and certification 
        procedures to address IUU fishing in accordance with the High 
        Seas Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1826d et seq.); and
            (13) publishing annual reports summarizing nonsensitive 
        information about the Working Group's efforts to investigate, 
        enforce, and prosecute groups and individuals engaging in IUU 
        fishing.

SEC. 8552. STRATEGIC PLAN.

    (a) Strategic Plan.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this title, the Working Group, after consultation with the 
relevant stakeholders, shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a 5-year 
integrated strategic plan on combating IUU fishing and enhancing 
maritime security, including specific strategies with monitoring 
benchmarks for addressing IUU fishing in priority regions.
    (b) Identification of Priority Regions and Priority Flag States.--
            (1) In general.--The strategic plan submitted under 
        subsection (a) shall identify priority regions and priority 
        flag states to be the focus of assistance coordinated by the 
        Working Group under section 8551.
            (2) Priority region selection criteria.--In selecting 
        priority regions under paragraph (1), the Working Group shall 
        select regions that--
                    (A) are at high risk for IUU fishing activity or 
                the entry of illegally caught seafood into their 
                markets; and
                    (B) lack the capacity to fully address the issues 
                described in subparagraph (A).
            (3) Priority flag states selection criteria.--In selecting 
        priority flag states under paragraph (1), the Working Group 
        shall select countries--
                    (A) the flagged vessels of which actively engage 
                in, knowingly profit from, or are complicit in IUU 
                fishing; and
                    (B) that lack the capacity to police their fleet.

SEC. 8553. REPORTS.

    Not later than 5 years after the submission of the 5-year 
integrated strategic plan under section 8552, and 5 years after, the 
Working Group shall submit a report to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, the Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the Senate, the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry of the Senate, the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
of Representatives, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives that contains--
            (1) a summary of global and regional trends in IUU fishing;
            (2) an assessment of the extent of the convergence between 
        transnational organized illegal activity, including human 
        trafficking and forced labor, and IUU fishing;
            (3) an assessment of the topics, data sources, and 
        strategies that would benefit from increased information 
        sharing and recommendations regarding harmonization of data 
        collection and sharing;
            (4) an assessment of assets, including military assets and 
        intelligence, which can be used for either enforcement 
        operations or strategies to combat IUU fishing;
            (5) summaries of the situational threats with respect to 
        IUU fishing in priority regions and an assessment of the 
        capacity of countries within such regions to respond to those 
        threats;
            (6) an assessment of the progress of countries in priority 
        regions in responding to those threats as a result of 
        assistance by the United States pursuant to the strategic plan 
        developed under section 8552, including--
                    (A) the identification of--
                            (i) relevant supply routes, ports of call, 
                        methods of landing and entering illegally 
                        caught product into legal supply chains, and 
                        financial institutions used in each country by 
                        participants engaging in IUU fishing; and
                            (ii) indicators of IUU fishing that are 
                        related to money laundering;
                    (B) an assessment of the adherence to, or progress 
                toward adoption of, international treaties related to 
                IUU fishing, including the Port State Measures 
                Agreement, by countries in priority regions;
                    (C) an assessment of the implementation by 
                countries in priority regions of seafood traceability 
                or capacity to apply traceability to verify the 
                legality of catch and strengthen fisheries management;
                    (D) an assessment of the capacity of countries in 
                priority regions to implement shiprider agreements;
                    (E) an assessment of the capacity of countries in 
                priority regions to increase maritime domain awareness; 
                and
                    (F) an assessment of the capacity of governments of 
                relevant countries in priority regions to sustain the 
                programs for which the United States has provided 
                assistance under this subtitle;
            (7) an assessment of the capacity of priority flag states 
        to track the movement of and police their fleet, prevent their 
        flagged vessels from engaging in IUU fishing, and enforce 
        applicable laws and regulations; and
            (8) an assessment of the extent of involvement in IUU 
        fishing of organizations designated as foreign terrorist 
        organizations under section 219 of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).

SEC. 8554. GULF OF MEXICO IUU FISHING SUBWORKING GROUP.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this title, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, in coordination with the Coast Guard and 
the Department of State, shall establish a subworking group to address 
IUU fishing in the exclusive economic zone of the United States in the 
Gulf of Mexico.
    (b) Functions.--The subworking group established under subsection 
(a) shall identify--
            (1) Federal actions taken and policies established during 
        the 5-year period immediately preceding the date of the 
        enactment of this title with respect to IUU fishing in the 
        exclusive economic zone of the United States in the Gulf of 
        Mexico, including such actions and policies related to--
                    (A) the surveillance, interdiction, and prosecution 
                of any foreign nationals engaged in such fishing; and
                    (B) the application of the provisions of the High 
                Seas Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Protection Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1826d et seq.) to any relevant nation, including 
                the status of any past or ongoing consultations and 
                certification procedures;
            (2) actions and policies, in addition to the actions and 
        policies described in paragraph (1), each of the Federal 
        agencies described in subsection (a) can take, using existing 
        resources, to combat IUU fishing in the exclusive economic zone 
        of the United States in the Gulf of Mexico; and
            (3) any additional authorities that could assist each such 
        agency in more effectively addressing such IUU fishing.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the IUU Fishing Subworking 
Group is established under subsection (a), the group shall submit a 
report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives that contains--
            (1) the findings identified pursuant to subsection (b); and
            (2) a timeline for each of the Federal agencies described 
        in subsection (a) to implement each action or policy identified 
        pursuant to subsection (b)(2).

 PART III--COMBATING HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN CONNECTION WITH THE CATCHING 
                   AND PROCESSING OF SEAFOOD PRODUCTS

SEC. 8561. FINDING.

    Congress finds that human trafficking, including forced labor, is a 
pervasive problem in the catching and processing of certain seafood 
products imported into the United States, particularly seafood products 
obtained through illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing.

SEC. 8562. ADDING THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE TO THE INTERAGENCY TASK 
              FORCE TO MONITOR AND COMBAT TRAFFICKING.

    Section 105(b) of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(b)) is amended by inserting 
``the Secretary of Commerce,'' after ``the Secretary of Education,''.

SEC. 8563. HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN THE SEAFOOD SUPPLY CHAIN REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this title, the Secretary of State and the Administrator 
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall jointly 
submit a report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on 
Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives that describes the 
existence of human trafficking, including forced labor, in the supply 
chains of seafood products imported into the United States.
    (b) Report Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
shall include--
            (1) a list of the countries at risk for human trafficking, 
        including forced labor, in their seafood catching and 
        processing industries, and an assessment of such risk for each 
        listed country;
            (2) a description of the quantity and economic value of 
        seafood products imported into the United States from the 
        countries on the list compiled pursuant to paragraph (1);
            (3) a description and assessment of the methods, if any, in 
        the countries on the list compiled pursuant to paragraph (1) to 
        trace and account for the manner in which seafood is caught;
            (4) a description of domestic and international enforcement 
        mechanisms to deter illegal practices in the catching of 
        seafood in the countries on the list compiled pursuant to 
        paragraph (1); and
            (5) such recommendations as the Secretary of State and the 
        Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration jointly consider appropriate for legislative or 
        administrative action to enhance and improve actions against 
        human trafficking, including forced labor, in the catching and 
        processing of seafood products outside of United States waters.

                PART IV--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 8571. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Funding.--Amounts made available to carry out this subtitle 
shall be derived from amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
to the relevant agencies and departments.
    (b) No Increase in Contributions.--Nothing in this subtitle shall 
be construed to authorize an increase in required or voluntary 
contributions paid by the United States to any multilateral or 
international organization.

SEC. 8572. ACCOUNTING OF FUNDS.

    By not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
title, the head of each Federal agency receiving or allocating funds to 
carry out activities under this subtitle shall, to the greatest extent 
practicable, prepare and submit to Congress a report that provides an 
accounting of all funds made available under this subtitle to the 
Federal agency.

      DIVISION F--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020

SEC. 9001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew 
Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020''.

SEC. 9002. DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Congressional intelligence committees.--The term 
        ``congressional intelligence committees'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3003).
            (2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
        community'' has the meaning given such term in such section.

                   TITLE XCI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 9101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities 
of the following elements of the United States Government:
            (1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
            (2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
            (3) The Department of Defense.
            (4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
            (5) The National Security Agency.
            (6) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, 
        and the Department of the Air Force.
            (7) The Coast Guard.
            (8) The Department of State.
            (9) The Department of the Treasury.
            (10) The Department of Energy.
            (11) The Department of Justice.
            (12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
            (13) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
            (14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
            (15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
            (16) The Department of Homeland Security.

SEC. 9102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) Specifications of Amounts.--The amounts authorized to be 
appropriated under section 9101 for the conduct of the intelligence 
activities of the elements listed in paragraphs (1) through (16) of 
section 9101, are those specified in the classified Schedule of 
Authorizations prepared to accompany this division.
    (b) Availability of Classified Schedule of Authorizations.--
            (1) Availability.--The classified Schedule of 
        Authorizations referred to in subsection (a) shall be made 
        available to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, 
        and to the President.
            (2) Distribution by the president.--Subject to paragraph 
        (3), the President shall provide for suitable distribution of 
        the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
        subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of such Schedule, 
        within the executive branch.
            (3) Limits on disclosure.--The President shall not publicly 
        disclose the classified Schedule of Authorizations or any 
        portion of such Schedule except--
                    (A) as provided in section 601(a) of the 
                Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act 
                of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
                    (B) to the extent necessary to implement the 
                budget; or
                    (C) as otherwise required by law.

SEC. 9103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account of the 
Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2020 the sum of 
$558,000,000.
    (b) Classified Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to 
amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community 
Management Account by subsection (a), there are authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account for 
fiscal year 2020 such additional amounts as are specified in the 
classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 9102(a).

   TITLE XCII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY 
                                 SYSTEM

SEC. 9201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal year 
2020.

              TITLE XCIII--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

           Subtitle A--General Intelligence Community Matters

SEC. 9301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

    The authorization of appropriations by this division shall not be 
deemed to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence 
activity which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the 
laws of the United States.

SEC. 9302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY 
              LAW.

    Appropriations authorized by this division for salary, pay, 
retirement, and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased 
by such additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for 
increases in such compensation or benefits authorized by law.

SEC. 9303. IMPROVING THE ONBOARDING METHODOLOGY FOR CERTAIN 
              INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
                and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Covered elements of the intelligence community.--The 
        term ``covered elements of the intelligence community'' means 
        the elements of the intelligence community that are within the 
        following:
                    (A) The Department of Energy.
                    (B) The Department of Homeland Security.
                    (C) The Department of Justice.
                    (D) The Department of State.
                    (E) The Department of the Treasury.
    (b) In General.--The Secretary of Defense and the Director of 
National Intelligence shall, consistent with Department of Defense 
Instruction 1400.25, as in effect on the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act--
            (1) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report that outlines a common methodology for measuring 
        onboarding in covered elements of the intelligence community, 
        including human resources and security processes;
            (2) not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, issue metrics for assessing key phases in the 
        onboarding described in paragraph (1) for which results will be 
        reported by the date that is 90 days after the date of such 
        issuance;
            (3) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report on collaboration among covered elements of the 
        intelligence community on their onboarding processes;
            (4) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report on employment of automated mechanisms in covered 
        elements of the intelligence community, including for tracking 
        personnel as they pass through each phase of the onboarding 
        process; and
            (5) not later than December 31, 2020, distribute surveys to 
        human resources offices and applicants about their experiences 
        with the onboarding process in covered elements of the 
        intelligence community.

SEC. 9304. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PUBLIC-PRIVATE TALENT EXCHANGE.

    (a) Policies, Processes, and Procedures Required.--Not later than 
270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of 
National Intelligence shall develop policies, processes, and procedures 
to facilitate the rotation of personnel of the intelligence community 
to the private sector, and personnel from the private sector to the 
intelligence community.
    (b) Detail Authority.--Under policies developed by the Director 
pursuant to subsection (a), with the agreement of a private-sector 
organization, and with the consent of the employee, a head of an 
element of the intelligence community may arrange for the temporary 
detail of an employee of such element to such private-sector 
organization, or from such private-sector organization to such element 
under this section.
    (c) Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--A head of an element of the intelligence 
        community exercising the authority of the head under subsection 
        (a) shall provide for a written agreement among the element of 
        the intelligence community, the private-sector organization, 
        and the employee concerned regarding the terms and conditions 
        of the employee's detail under this section. The agreement--
                    (A) shall require that the employee of the element, 
                upon completion of the detail, serve in the element, or 
                elsewhere in the civil service if approved by the head 
                of the element, for a period of at least equal to the 
                length of the detail;
                    (B) shall provide that if the employee of the 
                element fails to carry out the agreement, such employee 
                shall be liable to the United States for payment of all 
                non-salary and benefit expenses of the detail, unless 
                that failure was for good and sufficient reason, as 
                determined by the head of the element;
                    (C) shall contain language informing such employee 
                of the prohibition on improperly sharing or using non-
                public information that such employee may be privy to 
                or aware of related to element programming, budgeting, 
                resourcing, acquisition, or procurement for the benefit 
                or advantage of the private-sector organization; and
                    (D) shall contain language requiring the employee 
                to acknowledge the obligations of the employee under 
                section 1905 of title 18, United States Code (relating 
                to trade secrets).
            (2) Amount of liability.--An amount for which an employee 
        is liable under paragraph (1) shall be treated as a debt due 
        the United States.
            (3) Waiver.--The head of an element of the intelligence 
        community may waive, in whole or in part, collection of a debt 
        described in paragraph (2) based on a determination that the 
        collection would be against equity and good conscience and not 
        in the best interests of the United States, after taking into 
        account any indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or 
        lack of good faith on the part of the employee.
    (d) Termination.--A detail under this section may, at any time and 
for any reason, be terminated by the head of the element of the 
intelligence community concerned or the private-sector organization 
concerned.
    (e) Duration.--
            (1) In general.--A detail under this section shall be for a 
        period of not less than 3 months and not more than 2 years, 
        renewable up to a total of 3 years.
            (2) Longer periods.--A detail under this section may be for 
        a period in excess of 2 years, but not more than 3 years, if 
        the head of the element making the detail determines that such 
        detail is necessary to meet critical mission or program 
        requirements.
            (3) Limitation.--No employee of an element of the 
        intelligence community may be detailed under this section for 
        more than a total of 5 years, inclusive of all such details.
    (f) Status of Federal Employees Detailed to Private-sector 
Organizations.--
            (1) In general.--An employee of an element of the 
        intelligence community who is detailed to a private-sector 
        organization under this section shall be considered, during the 
        period of detail, to be on a regular work assignment in the 
        element for all purposes. The written agreement established 
        under subsection (c)(1) shall address the specific terms and 
        conditions related to the employee's continued status as a 
        Federal employee.
            (2) Requirements.--In establishing a temporary detail of an 
        employee of an element of the intelligence community to a 
        private-sector organization, the head of the element shall--
                    (A) certify that the temporary detail of such 
                employee shall not have an adverse or negative impact 
                on mission attainment or organizational capabilities 
                associated with the detail; and
                    (B) in the case of an element of the intelligence 
                community in the Department of Defense, ensure that the 
                normal duties and functions of such employees are not, 
                as a result of and during the course of such temporary 
                detail, performed or augmented by contractor personnel 
                in violation of the provisions of section 2461 of title 
                10, United States Code.
    (g) Terms and Conditions for Private-sector Employees.--An employee 
of a private-sector organization who is detailed to an element of the 
intelligence community under this section--
            (1) shall continue to receive pay and benefits from the 
        private-sector organization from which such employee is 
        detailed and shall not receive pay or benefits from the 
        element, except as provided in paragraph (2);
            (2) is deemed to be an employee of the element for the 
        purposes of--
                    (A) chapters 73 and 81 of title 5, United States 
                Code;
                    (B) sections 201, 203, 205, 207, 208, 209, 603, 
                606, 607, 643, 654, 1905, and 1913 of title 18, United 
                States Code;
                    (C) sections 1343, 1344, and 1349(b) of title 31, 
                United States Code;
                    (D) chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code 
                (commonly known as the ``Federal Tort Claims Act'') and 
                any other Federal tort liability statute;
                    (E) the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
                App.); and
                    (F) chapter 21 of title 41, United States Code;
            (3) may perform work that is considered inherently 
        governmental in nature only when requested in writing by the 
        head of the element;
            (4) may not be used to circumvent any limitation or 
        restriction on the size of the workforce of the element;
            (5) shall be subject to the same requirements applicable to 
        an employee performing the same functions and duties proposed 
        for performance by the private sector employee; and
            (6) in the case of an element of the intelligence community 
        in the Department of Defense, may not be used to circumvent the 
        provisions of section 2461 of title 10, United States Code.
    (h) Prohibition Against Charging Certain Costs to the Federal 
Government.--A private-sector organization may not charge an element of 
the intelligence community or any other agency of the Federal 
Government, as direct costs under a Federal contract, the costs of pay 
or benefits paid by the organization to an employee detailed to an 
element of the intelligence community under this section for the period 
of the detail and any subsequent renewal periods.
    (i) Additional Administrative Matters.--In carrying out this 
section, the Director, pursuant to procedures developed under 
subsection (a)--
            (1) shall, to the degree practicable, ensure that small 
        business concerns are represented with respect to details 
        authorized by this section;
            (2) may, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        establish criteria for elements of the intelligence community 
        to use appropriated funds to reimburse small business concerns 
        for the salaries and benefits of its employees during the 
        periods when the small business concern agrees to detail its 
        employees to the intelligence community under this section;
            (3) shall take into consideration the question of how 
        details under this section might best be used to help meet the 
        needs of the intelligence community, including with respect to 
        the training of employees;
            (4) shall take into consideration areas of private-sector 
        expertise that are critical to the intelligence community; and
            (5) shall establish oversight mechanisms to determine 
        whether the public-private exchange authorized by this section 
        improves the efficiency and effectiveness of the intelligence 
        community.
    (j) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Detail.--The term ``detail'' means, as appropriate in 
        the context in which such term is used--
                    (A) the assignment or loan of an employee of an 
                element of the intelligence community to a private-
                sector organization without a change of position from 
                the intelligence community element that employs the 
                individual; or
                    (B) the assignment or loan of an employee of a 
                private-sector organization to an element of the 
                intelligence community without a change of position 
                from the private-sector organization that employs the 
                individual.
            (2) Private-sector organization.--The term ``private-sector 
        organization'' means--
                    (A) a for-profit organization; or
                    (B) a not-for-profit organization.
            (3) Small business concern.--The term ``small business 
        concern'' has the meaning given such term in section 3703(e)(2) 
        of title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 9305. EXPANSION OF SCOPE OF PROTECTIONS FOR IDENTITIES OF COVERT 
              AGENTS.

    Section 605(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3126(4)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) by striking clause (ii);
                    (B) in clause (i), by striking ``, and'' and 
                inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by striking ``agency--'' and all that follows 
                through ``whose identity'' and inserting ``agency whose 
                identity''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ``resides and acts 
        outside the United States'' and inserting ``acts''.

SEC. 9306. INCLUSION OF SECURITY RISKS IN PROGRAM MANAGEMENT PLANS 
              REQUIRED FOR ACQUISITION OF MAJOR SYSTEMS IN NATIONAL 
              INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM.

    Section 102A(q)(1)(A) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3024(q)(1)(A)) is amended by inserting ``security risks,'' after 
``schedule,''.

SEC. 9307. PAID PARENTAL LEAVE.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to--
            (1) help the intelligence community recruit and retain a 
        dynamic, multi-talented, and diverse workforce capable of 
        meeting the security goals of the United States; and
            (2) establish best practices and processes for other 
        elements of the Federal Government seeking to pursue similar 
        policies.
    (b) Authorization of Paid Parental Leave for Intelligence Community 
Employees.--
            (1) In general.--Title III of the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3071 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
        section 304 the following:

``SEC. 305. PAID PARENTAL LEAVE.

    ``(a) Paid Parental Leave.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, a civilian employee of an element of the intelligence community 
shall have available a total of 12 administrative workweeks of paid 
parental leave in the event of the birth of a son or daughter to the 
employee, or placement of a son or daughter with the employee for 
adoption or foster care, and in order to care for such son or daughter, 
to be used during the 12-month period beginning on the date of the 
birth or placement.
    ``(b) Treatment of Parental Leave Request.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law--
            ``(1) an element of the intelligence community shall 
        accommodate an employee's leave schedule request under 
        subsection (a), including a request to use such leave 
        intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule, to the extent 
        that the requested leave schedule does not unduly disrupt 
        agency operations; and
            ``(2) to the extent that an employee's requested leave 
        schedule as described in paragraph (1) is based on medical 
        necessity related to a serious health condition connected to 
        the birth of a son or daughter, the employing element shall 
        handle the scheduling consistent with the treatment of 
        employees who are using leave under subparagraph (C) or (D) of 
        section 6382(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(c) Rules Relating to Paid Leave.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law--
            ``(1) an employee may not be required to first use all or 
        any portion of any unpaid leave available to the employee 
        before being allowed to use the paid parental leave described 
        in subsection (a); and
            ``(2) paid parental leave under subsection (a)--
                    ``(A) shall be payable from any appropriation or 
                fund available for salaries or expenses for positions 
                within the employing element;
                    ``(B) may not be considered to be annual or 
                vacation leave for purposes of section 5551 or 5552 of 
                title 5, United States Code, or for any other purpose;
                    ``(C) if not used by the employee before the end of 
                the 12-month period described in subsection (a) to 
                which the leave relates, may not be available for any 
                subsequent use and may not be converted into a cash 
                payment;
                    ``(D) may be granted only to the extent that the 
                employee does not receive a total of more than 12 weeks 
                of paid parental leave in any 12-month period beginning 
                on the date of a birth or placement;
                    ``(E) may not be granted--
                            ``(i) in excess of a lifetime aggregate 
                        total of 30 administrative workweeks based on 
                        placements of a foster child for any individual 
                        employee; or
                            ``(ii) in connection with temporary foster 
                        care placements expected to last less than 1 
                        year;
                    ``(F) may not be granted for a child being placed 
                for foster care or adoption if such leave was 
                previously granted to the same employee when the same 
                child was placed with the employee for foster care in 
                the past;
                    ``(G) shall be used in increments of hours (or 
                fractions thereof), with 12 administrative workweeks 
                equal to 480 hours for employees with a regular full-
                time work schedule and converted to a proportional 
                number of hours for employees with part-time, seasonal, 
                or uncommon tours of duty; and
                    ``(H) may not be used during off-season (nonpay 
                status) periods for employees with seasonal work 
                schedules.
    ``(d) Implementation Plan.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
provide the congressional intelligence committees with an 
implementation plan that includes--
            ``(1) processes and procedures for implementing the paid 
        parental leave policies under subsections (a) through (c);
            ``(2) an explanation of how the implementation of 
        subsections (a) through (c) will be reconciled with policies of 
        other elements of the Federal Government, including the impact 
        on elements funded by the National Intelligence Program that 
        are housed within agencies outside the intelligence community;
            ``(3) the projected impact of the implementation of 
        subsections (a) through (c) on the workforce of the 
        intelligence community, including take rates, retention, 
        recruiting, and morale, broken down by each element of the 
        intelligence community; and
            ``(4) all costs or operational expenses associated with the 
        implementation of subsections (a) through (c).
    ``(e) Directive.--Not later than 90 days after the Director of 
National Intelligence submits the implementation plan under subsection 
(d), the Director of National Intelligence shall issue a written 
directive to implement this section, which directive shall take effect 
on the date of issuance.
    ``(f) Annual Report.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees an annual report 
that--
            ``(1) details the number of employees of each element of 
        the intelligence community who applied for and took paid 
        parental leave under subsection (a) during the year covered by 
        the report; and
            ``(2) includes updates on major implementation challenges 
        or costs associated with paid parental leave.
    ``(g) Definition of Son or Daughter.--For purposes of this section, 
the term `son or daughter' has the meaning given the term in section 
6381 of title 5, United States Code.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents in the 
        matter preceding section 2 of the National Security Act of 1947 
        (50 U.S.C. 3002) is amended by inserting after the item 
        relating to section 304 the following:

``Sec. 305. Paid parental leave.''.
    (c) Applicability.--Section 305 of the National Security Act of 
1947, as added by subsection (b), shall apply with respect to leave 
taken in connection with the birth or placement of a son or daughter 
that occurs on or after the date on which the Director of National 
Intelligence issues the written directive under subsection (e) of such 
section 305.

      Subtitle B--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

SEC. 9311. EXCLUSIVITY, CONSISTENCY, AND TRANSPARENCY IN SECURITY 
              CLEARANCE PROCEDURES.

    (a) Exclusivity of Procedures.--Section 801 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(c) Exclusivity.--Except as provided in subsection (b) and 
subject to sections 801A and 801B, the procedures established pursuant 
to subsection (a) shall be the exclusive procedures by which decisions 
about eligibility for access to classified information are governed.''.
    (b) Transparency.--Such section is further amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(d) Publication.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this subsection, the President shall--
                    ``(A) publish in the Federal Register the 
                procedures established pursuant to subsection (a); or
                    ``(B) submit to Congress a certification that the 
                procedures currently in effect that govern access to 
                classified information as described in subsection (a)--
                            ``(i) are published in the Federal 
                        Register; and
                            ``(ii) comply with the requirements of 
                        subsection (a).
            ``(2) Updates.--Whenever the President makes a revision to 
        a procedure established pursuant to subsection (a), the 
        President shall publish such revision in the Federal Register 
        not later than 30 days before the date on which the revision 
        becomes effective.''.
    (c) Consistency.--
            (1) In general.--Title VIII of the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
        section 801 the following:

``SEC. 801A. DECISIONS RELATING TO ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Agency.--The term `agency' has the meaning given the 
        term `Executive agency' in section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code.
            ``(2) Classified information.--The term `classified 
        information' includes sensitive compartmented information, 
        restricted data, restricted handling information, and other 
        compartmented information.
            ``(3) Eligibility for access to classified information.--
        The term `eligibility for access to classified information' has 
        the meaning given such term in the procedures established 
        pursuant to section 801(a).
    ``(b) In General.--Each head of an agency that makes a 
determination regarding eligibility for access to classified 
information shall ensure that in making the determination, the head of 
the agency or any person acting on behalf of the agency--
            ``(1) does not violate any right or protection enshrined in 
        the Constitution of the United States, including rights 
        articulated in the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments;
            ``(2) does not discriminate for or against an individual on 
        the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, 
        or handicap;
            ``(3) is not carrying out--
                    ``(A) retaliation for political activities or 
                beliefs; or
                    ``(B) a coercion or reprisal described in section 
                2302(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code; and
            ``(4) does not violate section 3001(j)(1) of the 
        Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 
        U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents in the 
        matter preceding section 2 of the National Security Act of 1947 
        (50 U.S.C. 3002) is amended by inserting after the item 
        relating to section 801 the following:

``Sec. 801A. Decisions relating to access to classified information.''.

SEC. 9312. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE UNIVERSITY.

    (a) Limitation.--Neither the Secretary of Defense nor the Director 
of National Intelligence may commence any activity to transfer the 
National Intelligence University out of the Defense Intelligence Agency 
until the Secretary and the Director jointly certify each of the 
following:
            (1) The National Intelligence University has positively 
        adjudicated its warning from the Middle States Commission on 
        Higher Education and had its regional accreditation fully 
        restored.
            (2) The National Intelligence University will serve as the 
        exclusive means by which advanced intelligence education is 
        provided to personnel of the Department of Defense.
            (3) Military personnel will receive joint professional 
        military education from a National Intelligence University 
        location at a non-Department of Defense agency.
            (4) The Department of Education will allow the Office of 
        the Director of National Intelligence to grant advanced 
        educational degrees.
            (5) A governance model jointly led by the Director and the 
        Secretary of Defense is in place for the National Intelligence 
        University.
    (b) Cost Estimates.--
            (1) Definition of appropriate committees of congress.--In 
        this subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of 
        Congress'' means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; 
                and
                    (C) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) In general.--Before commencing any activity to transfer 
        the National Intelligence University out of the Defense 
        Intelligence Agency, the Secretary of Defense and the Director 
        of National Intelligence shall jointly submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress an estimate of the direct 
        and indirect costs of operating the National Intelligence 
        University and the costs of transferring the National 
        Intelligence University to another agency.
            (3) Contents.--The estimate submitted under paragraph (2) 
        shall include all indirect costs, including with respect to 
        human resources, security, facilities, and information 
        technology.

SEC. 9313. IMPROVING VISIBILITY INTO THE SECURITY CLEARANCE PROCESS.

    (a) Definition of Security Executive Agent.--In this section, the 
term ``Security Executive Agent'' means the officer serving as the 
Security Executive Agent pursuant to section 803 of the National 
Security Act of 1947, as added by section 10605 of division G.
    (b) Policy Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent shall issue a 
policy that requires the head of each Federal agency to create, not 
later than December 31, 2023, an electronic portal that can be used by 
human resources personnel and applicants for security clearances to 
view information about the status of an application for a security 
clearance and the average time required for each phase of the security 
clearance process.

SEC. 9314. MAKING CERTAIN POLICIES AND EXECUTION PLANS RELATING TO 
              PERSONNEL CLEARANCES AVAILABLE TO INDUSTRY PARTNERS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate industry partner.--The term ``appropriate 
        industry partner'' means a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as 
        defined in section 101(a) of Executive Order 12829 (50 U.S.C. 
        3161 note; relating to National Industrial Security Program), 
        as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of 
        this Act) that is participating in the National Industrial 
        Security Program established by such Executive Order.
            (2) Security executive agent.--The term ``Security 
        Executive Agent'' means the officer serving as the Security 
        Executive Agent pursuant to section 803 of the National 
        Security Act of 1947, as added by section 10605 of division G.
    (b) Sharing of Policies and Plans Required.--Each head of a Federal 
agency shall share policies and plans relating to security clearances 
with appropriate industry partners directly affected by such policies 
and plans in a manner consistent with the protection of national 
security as well as the goals and objectives of the National Industrial 
Security Program administered pursuant to Executive Order 12829 (50 
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to the National Industrial Security 
Program).
    (c) Development of Policies and Procedures Required.--Not later 
than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Security 
Executive Agent and the Director of the National Industrial Security 
Program shall jointly develop policies and procedures by which 
appropriate industry partners with proper security clearances and a 
need to know can have appropriate access to the policies and plans 
shared pursuant to subsection (b) that directly affect those industry 
partners.

      Subtitle C--Inspector General of the Intelligence Community

SEC. 9321. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Whistleblower.--The term ``whistleblower'' means a 
        person who makes a whistleblower disclosure.
            (2) Whistleblower disclosure.--The term ``whistleblower 
        disclosure'' means a disclosure that is protected under section 
        1104 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3234) or 
        section 3001(j)(1) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
        Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)).

SEC. 9322. INSPECTOR GENERAL EXTERNAL REVIEW PANEL.

    (a) Authority to Convene External Review Panels.--
            (1) In general.--Title XI of the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3231 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following new section:

``SEC. 1105. INSPECTOR GENERAL EXTERNAL REVIEW PANEL.

    ``(a) Request for Review.--An individual with a claim described in 
subsection (b) may submit to the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community a request for a review of such claim by an external review 
panel convened under subsection (c).
    ``(b) Claims and Individuals Described.--A claim described in this 
subsection is any--
            ``(1) claim by an individual--
                    ``(A) that the individual has been subjected to a 
                personnel action that is prohibited under section 1104; 
                and
                    ``(B) who has exhausted the applicable review 
                process for the claim pursuant to enforcement of such 
                section; or
            ``(2) claim by an individual--
                    ``(A) that he or she has been subjected to a 
                reprisal prohibited by paragraph (1) of section 3001(j) 
                of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act 
                of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)); and
                    ``(B) who received a decision on an appeal 
                regarding that claim under paragraph (4) of such 
                section.
    ``(c) External Review Panel Convened.--
            ``(1) Discretion to convene.--Upon receipt of a request 
        under subsection (a) regarding a claim, the Inspector General 
        of the Intelligence Community may, at the discretion of the 
        Inspector General, convene an external review panel under this 
        subsection to review the claim.
            ``(2) Membership.--
                    ``(A) Composition.--An external review panel 
                convened under this subsection shall be composed of 
                three members as follows:
                            ``(i) The Inspector General of the 
                        Intelligence Community.
                            ``(ii) Except as provided in subparagraph 
                        (B), two members selected by the Inspector 
                        General as the Inspector General considers 
                        appropriate on a case-by-case basis from among 
                        inspectors general of the following:
                                    ``(I) The Department of Defense.
                                    ``(II) The Department of Energy.
                                    ``(III) The Department of Homeland 
                                Security.
                                    ``(IV) The Department of Justice.
                                    ``(V) The Department of State.
                                    ``(VI) The Department of the 
                                Treasury.
                                    ``(VII) The Central Intelligence 
                                Agency.
                                    ``(VIII) The Defense Intelligence 
                                Agency.
                                    ``(IX) The National Geospatial-
                                Intelligence Agency.
                                    ``(X) The National Reconnaissance 
                                Office.
                                    ``(XI) The National Security 
                                Agency.
                    ``(B) Limitation.--An inspector general of an 
                agency may not be selected to sit on the panel under 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) to review any matter relating to a 
                decision made by such agency.
                    ``(C) Chairperson.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the chairperson of any panel 
                        convened under this subsection shall be the 
                        Inspector General of the Intelligence 
                        Community.
                            ``(ii) Conflicts of interest.--If the 
                        Inspector General of the Intelligence Community 
                        finds cause to recuse himself or herself from a 
                        panel convened under this subsection, the 
                        Inspector General of the Intelligence Community 
                        shall--
                                    ``(I) select a chairperson from 
                                inspectors general of the elements 
                                listed under subparagraph (A)(ii) whom 
                                the Inspector General of the 
                                Intelligence Community considers 
                                appropriate; and
                                    ``(II) notify the congressional 
                                intelligence committees of such 
                                selection.
            ``(3) Period of review.--Each external review panel 
        convened under this subsection to review a claim shall complete 
        review of the claim no later than 270 days after the date on 
        which the Inspector General convenes the external review panel.
    ``(d) Remedies.--
            ``(1) Panel recommendations.--If an external review panel 
        convened under subsection (c) determines, pursuant to a review 
        of a claim submitted by an individual under subsection (a), 
        that the individual was the subject of a personnel action 
        prohibited under section 1104 or was subjected to a reprisal 
        prohibited by section 3001(j)(1) of the Intelligence Reform and 
        Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)), the 
        panel may recommend that the agency head take corrective 
        action--
                    ``(A) in the case of an employee or former 
                employee--
                            ``(i) to return the employee or former 
                        employee, as nearly as practicable and 
                        reasonable, to the position such employee or 
                        former employee would have held had the 
                        reprisal not occurred; or
                            ``(ii) reconsider the employee's or former 
                        employee's eligibility for access to classified 
                        information consistent with national security; 
                        or
                    ``(B) in any other case, such other action as the 
                external review panel considers appropriate.
            ``(2) Agency action.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date on which the head of an agency receives a 
                recommendation from an external review panel under 
                paragraph (1), the head shall--
                            ``(i) give full consideration to such 
                        recommendation; and
                            ``(ii) inform the panel and the Director of 
                        National Intelligence of what action the head 
                        has taken with respect to the recommendation.
                    ``(B) Failure to inform.--The Director shall notify 
                the President of any failures to comply with 
                subparagraph (A)(ii).
    ``(e) Annual Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not less frequently than once each year, 
        the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community shall 
        submit to the congressional intelligence committees and the 
        Director of National Intelligence a report on the activities 
        under this section during the previous year.
            ``(2) Contents.--Subject to such limitations as the 
        Inspector General of the Intelligence Community considers 
        necessary to protect the privacy of an individual who has made 
        a claim described in subsection (b), each report submitted 
        under paragraph (1) shall include, for the period covered by 
        the report, the following:
                    ``(A) The determinations and recommendations made 
                by the external review panels convened under this 
                section.
                    ``(B) The responses of the heads of agencies that 
                received recommendations from the external review 
                panels.''.
            (2) Table of contents amendment.--The table of contents in 
        the first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 1105. Inspector General external review panel.''.
    (b) Recommendation on Addressing Whistleblower Appeals Relating to 
Reprisal Complaints Against Inspectors General.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the 
        Intelligence Community shall submit to the congressional 
        intelligence committees a recommendation on how to ensure 
        that--
                    (A) a whistleblower in the intelligence community 
                who has a complaint against an inspector general in the 
                intelligence community and who alleges a reprisal, has 
                available the agency adjudication and appellate review 
                provided under section 1104 of the National Security 
                Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3234); and
                    (B) any such whistleblower who has exhausted the 
                applicable review process may request an external 
                review panel and receive one, at the discretion of the 
                Inspector General of the Intelligence Community.
            (2) Contents.--The recommendation submitted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A discussion of whether and to what degree 
                section 1105 of the National Security Act of 1947, as 
                added by subsection (a)(1), provides appropriate 
                authorities and mechanisms to provide an external 
                review panel as described in paragraph (1) of this 
                subsection and for the purposes described in such 
                paragraph.
                    (B) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Inspector General may have 
                with respect to providing an external review panel as 
                described in paragraph (1) and for the purposes 
                described in such paragraph.

SEC. 9323. HARMONIZATION OF WHISTLEBLOWER PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community, in coordination with the Intelligence Community Inspectors 
General Forum, shall develop recommendations, applicable to all 
inspectors general of elements of the intelligence community, regarding 
the harmonization of instructions, policies, and directives relating to 
processes, procedures, and timelines for claims and appeals relating to 
allegations of personnel actions prohibited under section 1104 of the 
National Security Act of 1947 or reprisals prohibited by section 
3001(j)(1) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 
2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)).
    (b) Transparency and Protection.--In developing recommendations 
under subsection (a), the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community shall make efforts to maximize transparency and protect 
whistleblowers.

SEC. 9324. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY OVERSIGHT OF AGENCY WHISTLEBLOWER 
              ACTIONS.

    (a) Feasibility Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the 
        Intelligence Community, in consultation with the Intelligence 
        Community Inspectors General Forum, shall complete a 
        feasibility study on establishing a hotline whereby all 
        complaints of whistleblowers relating to the intelligence 
        community are automatically referred to the Inspector General 
        of the Intelligence Community.
            (2) Elements.--The feasibility study conducted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) The anticipated number of annual whistleblower 
                complaints received by all elements of the intelligence 
                community.
                    (B) The additional resources required to implement 
                the hotline, including personnel and technology.
                    (C) The resulting budgetary effects.
                    (D) Findings from the system established pursuant 
                to subsection (b).
    (b) Oversight System Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the 
Intelligence Community shall establish a system whereby the Inspector 
General is provided, in near real time, the following:
            (1) All information relating to complaints by 
        whistleblowers relating to the programs and activities under 
        the jurisdiction of the Director of National Intelligence.
            (2) Any inspector general actions relating to such 
        complaints.
    (c) Privacy Protections.--
            (1) Policies and procedures required.--Before establishing 
        the system required by subsection (b), the Inspector General of 
        the Intelligence Community shall establish policies and 
        procedures to protect the privacy of whistleblowers and protect 
        against further dissemination of whistleblower information 
        without consent of the whistleblower.
            (2) Control of distribution.--The system established under 
        subsection (b) shall provide whistleblowers the option of 
        prohibiting distribution of their complaints to the Inspector 
        General of the Intelligence Community.

SEC. 9325. REPORT ON CLEARED WHISTLEBLOWER ATTORNEYS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
report on access to cleared attorneys by whistleblowers in the 
intelligence community.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) The number of whistleblowers in the intelligence 
        community who sought to retain a cleared attorney and at what 
        stage they sought such an attorney.
            (2) For the 3-year period preceding the report, the 
        following:
                    (A) The number of limited security agreements 
                (LSAs).
                    (B) The scope and clearance levels of such limited 
                security agreements.
                    (C) The number of whistleblowers represented by 
                cleared counsel.
            (3) Recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action to ensure that whistleblowers in the intelligence 
        community have access to cleared attorneys, including 
        improvements to the limited security agreement process and such 
        other options as the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
        Community considers appropriate.
    (c) Survey.--The Inspector General of the Intelligence Community 
shall ensure that the report submitted under subsection (a) is based 
on--
            (1) data from a survey of whistleblowers whose claims are 
        reported to the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community 
        by means of the oversight system established pursuant to 
        section 9324;
            (2) information obtained from the inspectors general of the 
        intelligence community; or
            (3) information from such other sources as may be 
        identified by the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
        Community.

                 TITLE XCIV--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 9401. STUDY ON FOREIGN EMPLOYMENT OF FORMER PERSONNEL OF 
              INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) Study.--The Director of National Intelligence, in coordination 
with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, shall conduct 
a study of matters relating to the foreign employment of former 
personnel of the intelligence community.
    (b) Elements.--The study conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
address the following:
            (1) Issues that pertain to former employees of the 
        intelligence community working with, or in support of, foreign 
        governments, and the nature and scope of those concerns.
            (2) Such legislative or administrative action as may be 
        necessary for both front-end screening and in-progress 
        oversight by the Director of Defense Trade Controls of licenses 
        issued by the Director for former employees of the intelligence 
        community working for foreign governments.
            (3) How increased requirements could be imposed for 
        periodic compliance reporting when licenses are granted for 
        companies or organizations that employ former personnel of the 
        intelligence community to execute contracts with foreign 
        governments.
    (c) Report and Plan.--
            (1) Definition of appropriate committees of congress.--In 
        this subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of 
        Congress'' means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                    (C) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress--
                    (A) a report on the findings of the Director with 
                respect to the study conducted pursuant to subsection 
                (a); and
                    (B) a plan to carry out such administrative actions 
                as the Director considers appropriate pursuant to the 
                findings described in subparagraph (A).

SEC. 9402. COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT OF INVESTMENT IN KEY 
              UNITED STATES TECHNOLOGIES BY COMPANIES OR ORGANIZATIONS 
              LINKED TO CHINA.

    (a) Assessment Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the Director of the National Counterintelligence and 
Security Center, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Secretary of the 
Treasury, and the heads of such other Federal agencies as the Director 
of National Intelligence considers appropriate, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a comprehensive economic 
assessment of investment in key United States technologies, including 
emerging technologies, by companies or organizations linked to China, 
including the implications of these investments for the national 
security of the United States.
    (b) Form of Assessment.--The assessment submitted under subsection 
(a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
classified annex.

SEC. 9403. ANALYSIS OF AND PERIODIC BRIEFINGS ON MAJOR INITIATIVES OF 
              INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY IN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND 
              MACHINE LEARNING.

    (a) Analysis.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall, in coordination with the heads of such 
        elements of the intelligence community as the Director 
        considers appropriate--
                    (A) complete a comprehensive analysis of the major 
                initiatives of the intelligence community in artificial 
                intelligence and machine learning; and
                    (B) submit to the congressional intelligence 
                committees a report on the findings of the Director 
                with respect to the analysis conducted pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A).
            (2) Elements.--The analysis conducted under paragraph 
        (1)(A) shall include analyses of how the initiatives described 
        in such paragraph--
                    (A) correspond with the strategy of the 
                intelligence community entitled ``Augmenting 
                Intelligence Using Machines'';
                    (B) complement each other and avoid unnecessary 
                duplication;
                    (C) are coordinated with the efforts of the Defense 
                Department on artificial intelligence, including 
                efforts at the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center 
                (JAIC) and Project Maven; and
                    (D) leverage advances in artificial intelligence 
                and machine learning in the private sector.
    (b) Periodic Briefings.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, not less frequently than twice each year 
thereafter until the date that is 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once each year 
thereafter until the date that is 7 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director and the Chief Information Officer 
of the Department of Defense shall jointly provide to the congressional 
intelligence committees and congressional defense committees (as 
defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code) briefings with 
updates on activities relating to, and the progress of, their 
respective artificial intelligence and machine learning initiatives, 
particularly the Augmenting Intelligence Using Machines initiative and 
the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center.

SEC. 9404. ENCOURAGING COOPERATIVE ACTIONS TO DETECT AND COUNTER 
              FOREIGN INFLUENCE OPERATIONS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Russian Federation, through military intelligence 
        units, also known as the ``GRU'', and Kremlin-linked troll 
        organizations often referred to as the ``Internet Research 
        Agency'', deploy information warfare operations against the 
        United States, its allies and partners, with the goal of 
        advancing the strategic interests of the Russian Federation.
            (2) One line of effort deployed as part of these 
        information warfare operations is the weaponization of social 
        media platforms with the goals of intensifying societal 
        tensions, undermining trust in governmental institutions within 
        the United States, its allies and partners in the West, and 
        generally sowing division, fear, and confusion.
            (3) These information warfare operations are a threat to 
        the national security of the United States and that of the 
        allies and partners of the United States. As Director of 
        National Intelligence Dan Coats stated, ``These actions are 
        persistent, they are pervasive and they are meant to undermine 
        America's democracy.''.
            (4) These information warfare operations continue to evolve 
        and increase in sophistication.
            (5) Other foreign adversaries and hostile non-state actors 
        will increasingly adopt similar tactics of deploying 
        information warfare operations against the West.
            (6) Technological advances, including artificial 
        intelligence, will only make it more difficult in the future to 
        detect fraudulent accounts, deceptive material posted on social 
        media, and malign behavior on social media platforms.
            (7) Because these information warfare operations are 
        deployed within and across private social media platforms, the 
        companies that own these platforms have a responsibility to 
        detect and remove foreign adversary networks operating 
        clandestinely on their platforms.
            (8) The social media companies are inherently 
        technologically sophisticated and adept at rapidly analyzing 
        large amounts of data and developing software-based solutions 
        to diverse and ever-changing challenges on their platforms, 
        which makes them well-equipped to address the threat occurring 
        on their platforms.
            (9) Independent analyses confirmed Kremlin-linked threat 
        networks, based on data provided by several social media 
        companies to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate, thereby demonstrating that it is possible to discern 
        both broad patterns of cross-platform information warfare 
        operations and specific fraudulent behavior on social media 
        platforms.
            (10) General Paul Nakasone, Director of the National 
        Security Agency, emphasized the importance of these independent 
        analyses to the planning and conduct of military cyber 
        operations to frustrate Kremlin-linked information warfare 
        operations against the 2018 mid-term elections. General 
        Nakasone stated that the reports ``were very, very helpful in 
        terms of being able to understand exactly what our adversary 
        was trying to do to build dissent within our nation.''.
            (11) Institutionalizing ongoing robust, independent, and 
        vigorous analysis of data related to foreign threat networks 
        within and across social media platforms will help counter 
        ongoing information warfare operations against the United 
        States, its allies, and its partners.
            (12) Archiving and disclosing to the public the results of 
        these analyses by the social media companies and trusted third-
        party experts in a transparent manner will serve to demonstrate 
        that the social media companies are detecting and removing 
        foreign malign activities from their platforms while protecting 
        the privacy of the people of the United States and will build 
        public understanding of the scale and scope of these foreign 
        threats to our democracy, since exposure is one of the most 
        effective means to build resilience.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the social media companies should cooperate among 
        themselves and with independent organizations and researchers 
        on a sustained and regular basis to share and analyze data and 
        indicators relevant to foreign information warfare operations 
        within and across their platforms in order to detect and 
        counter foreign information warfare operations that threaten 
        the national security of the United States and its allies and 
        partners;
            (2) these analytic efforts should be organized in such a 
        fashion as to meet the highest standards of ethics, 
        confidentiality, and privacy protection of the people of the 
        United States;
            (3) these analytic efforts should be undertaken as soon as 
        possible to facilitate countering ongoing Kremlin, Kremlin-
        linked, and other foreign information warfare operations and to 
        aid in preparations for the United States presidential and 
        congressional elections in 2020 and beyond;
            (4) the structure and operations of social media companies 
        make them well positioned to address foreign adversary threat 
        networks within and across their platforms, and these efforts 
        could be conducted without direct Government involvement, 
        direction, or regulation; and
            (5) if the social media industry fails to take sufficient 
        action to address foreign adversary threat networks operating 
        within or across their platforms, Congress would have to 
        consider additional safeguards for ensuring that this threat is 
        effectively mitigated.
    (c) Authority to Facilitate Establishment of Social Media Data 
Analysis Center.--
            (1) Authority.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of Defense, may facilitate, by 
        grant or contract or under an existing authority of the 
        Director, the establishment of a Social Media Data Analysis 
        Center with the functions described in paragraph (2) at an 
        independent, nonprofit organization.
            (2) Functions.--The functions described in this paragraph 
        are the following:
                    (A) Acting as a convening and sponsoring authority 
                for cooperative social media data analysis of foreign 
                threat networks involving social media companies and 
                third-party experts, nongovernmental organizations, 
                data journalists, federally funded research and 
                development centers, and academic researchers.
                    (B) Facilitating analysis within and across the 
                individual social media platforms for the purpose of 
                detecting, exposing, and countering clandestine foreign 
                influence operations and related unlawful activities 
                that fund or subsidize such operations.
                    (C) Developing processes to share information from 
                government entities on foreign influence operations 
                with the individual social media companies to inform 
                threat analysis, and working with the Office of the 
                Director of National Intelligence as appropriate.
                    (D) Determining and making public criteria for 
                identifying which companies, organizations, or 
                researchers qualify for inclusion in the activities of 
                the Center, and inviting entities that fit the criteria 
                to join.
                    (E) Determining jointly with the social media 
                companies what data and metadata related to indicators 
                of foreign adversary threat networks from their 
                platforms and business operations will be made 
                available for access and analysis.
                    (F) Developing and making public the criteria and 
                standards that must be met for companies, other 
                organizations, and individual researchers to access and 
                analyze data relating to foreign adversary threat 
                networks within and across social media platforms and 
                publish or otherwise use the results.
                    (G) Developing and making public the ethical 
                standards for investigation of foreign threat networks 
                and use of analytic results and for protection of the 
                privacy of the customers and users of the social media 
                platforms and of the proprietary information of the 
                social media companies.
                    (H) Developing technical, contractual, and 
                procedural controls to prevent misuse of data, 
                including any necessary auditing procedures, compliance 
                checks, and review mechanisms.
                    (I) Developing and making public criteria and 
                conditions under which the Center shall share 
                information with the appropriate Government agencies 
                regarding threats to national security from, or 
                violations of the law involving, foreign activities on 
                social media platforms.
                    (J) Developing a searchable, public archive 
                aggregating information related to foreign influence 
                and disinformation operations to build a collective 
                understanding of the threats and facilitate future 
                examination consistent with privacy protections.
    (d) Reporting and Notifications.--If the Director of National 
Intelligence chooses to use funds under subsection (c)(1) to facilitate 
the establishment of the Center, the Director of the Center shall--
            (1) not later than March 1, 2020, submit to Congress a 
        report on--
                    (A) the estimated funding needs of the Center for 
                fiscal year 2021 and for subsequent years;
                    (B) such statutory protections from liability as 
                the Director considers necessary for the Center, 
                participating social media companies, and participating 
                third-party analytical participants;
                    (C) such statutory penalties as the Director 
                considers necessary to ensure against misuse of data by 
                researchers; and
                    (D) such changes to the Center's mission to fully 
                capture broader unlawful activities that intersect 
                with, complement, or support information warfare 
                tactics; and
            (2) not less frequently than once each year, submit to the 
        Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, 
        and the appropriate congressional committees a report--
                    (A) that assesses--
                            (i) degree of cooperation and commitment 
                        from the social media companies to the mission 
                        of the Center; and
                            (ii) effectiveness of the Center in 
                        detecting and removing clandestine foreign 
                        information warfare operations from social 
                        media platforms; and
                    (B) includes such recommendations for legislative 
                or administrative action as the Center considers 
                appropriate to carry out the functions of the Center.
    (e) Periodic Reporting to the Public.--The Director of the Center 
shall--
            (1) once each quarter, make available to the public a 
        report on key trends in foreign influence and disinformation 
        operations, including any threats to campaigns and elections, 
        to inform the public of the United States; and
            (2) as the Director considers necessary, provide more 
        timely assessments relating to ongoing disinformation 
        campaigns.
    (f) Funding.--Of the amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the National Intelligence Program (as defined in section 3 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)) in fiscal year 
2020 and 2021, the Director of National Intelligence may use up to 
$30,000,000 to carry out this section.
    (g) Definition of Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this 
section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate;
            (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
            (4) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
            (5) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate;
            (6) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (7) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (8) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (9) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (10) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives.

SEC. 9405. OVERSIGHT OF FOREIGN INFLUENCE IN ACADEMIA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``covered institution of higher education'' means an 
        institution described in section 102 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002) that receives Federal funds in any 
        amount and for any purpose.
            (2) Sensitive research subject.--The term ``sensitive 
        research subject'' means a subject of research that is carried 
        out at a covered institution of higher education that receives 
        funds that were appropriated for--
                    (A) the National Intelligence Program; or
                    (B) any Federal agency the Director of National 
                Intelligence deems appropriate.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once each year 
thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with 
such elements of the intelligence community as the Director considers 
appropriate and consistent with the privacy protections afforded to 
United States persons, shall submit to congressional intelligence 
committees a report on risks to sensitive research subjects posed by 
foreign entities in order to provide Congress and covered institutions 
of higher education with more complete information on these risks and 
to help ensure academic freedom.
    (c) Contents.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A list of sensitive research subjects that could affect 
        national security.
            (2) A list of foreign entities, including governments, 
        corporations, nonprofit organizations and for-profit 
        organizations, and any subsidiary or affiliate of such an 
        entity, that the Director determines pose a 
        counterintelligence, espionage (including economic espionage), 
        or other national security threats with respect to sensitive 
        research subjects.
            (3) A list of any known or suspected attempts by foreign 
        entities to exert pressure on covered institutions of higher 
        education, including attempts to limit freedom of speech, 
        propagate misinformation or disinformation, or to influence 
        professors, researchers, or students.
            (4) Recommendations for collaboration between covered 
        institutions of higher education and the intelligence community 
        to mitigate threats to sensitive research subjects associated 
        with foreign influence in academia, including any necessary 
        legislative or administrative action.
    (d) Congressional Notifications Required.--Not later than 30 days 
after the date on which the Director identifies a change to either list 
described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (c), the Director shall 
notify the congressional intelligence committees of the change.

SEC. 9406. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE REPORT ON FIFTH-GENERATION 
              WIRELESS NETWORK TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on--
            (1) the threat to United States national security posed by 
        the global and regional adoption of fifth-generation (5G) 
        wireless network technology built by foreign companies; and
            (2) the effect of possible efforts to mitigate the threat.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include:
            (1) The timeline and scale of global and regional adoption 
        of foreign fifth-generation wireless network technology.
            (2) The implications of such global and regional adoption 
        on the cyber and espionage threat to the United States and 
        United States interests as well as to United States cyber and 
        collection capabilities.
            (3) The effect of possible mitigation efforts, including:
                    (A) United States Government policy promoting the 
                use of strong, end-to-end encryption for data 
                transmitted over fifth-generation wireless networks.
                    (B) United States Government policy promoting or 
                funding free, open-source implementation of fifth-
                generation wireless network technology.
                    (C) United States Government subsidies or 
                incentives that could be used to promote the adoption 
                of secure fifth-generation wireless network technology 
                developed by companies of the United States or 
                companies of allies of the United States.
                    (D) United States Government strategy to reduce 
                foreign influence and political pressure in 
                international standard-setting bodies.
    (c) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form to the greatest extent practicable, but 
may include a classified appendix if necessary.

SEC. 9407. ANNUAL REPORT BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES ON 
              CYBERSECURITY AND SURVEILLANCE THREATS TO CONGRESS.

    (a) Annual Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once each 
year thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on 
cybersecurity and surveillance threats to Congress.
    (b) Statistics.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include statistics on cyber attacks and other incidents of espionage or 
surveillance targeted against Senators or the immediate families or 
staff of the Senators, in which the nonpublic communications and other 
private information of such targeted individuals were lost, stolen, or 
otherwise subject to unauthorized access by criminals or a foreign 
government.
    (c) Consultation.--In preparing a report to be submitted under 
subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall consult with the Director 
of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate.

SEC. 9408. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENT OF FOREIGN 
              INTERFERENCE IN ELECTIONS.

    (a) Assessments Required.--Not later than 45 days after the 
conclusion of a United States election, the Director of National 
Intelligence, in consultation with the heads of such other executive 
departments and agencies as the Director considers appropriate, shall--
            (1) conduct an assessment of any information indicating 
        that a foreign government, or any person acting as an agent of 
        or on behalf of a foreign government, has acted with the intent 
        or purpose of interfering in that election; and
            (2) transmit the findings of the Director with respect to 
        the assessment conducted under paragraph (1), along with such 
        supporting information as the Director considers appropriate, 
        to the following:
                    (A) The President.
                    (B) The Secretary of State.
                    (C) The Secretary of the Treasury.
                    (D) The Secretary of Defense.
                    (E) The Attorney General.
                    (F) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
                    (G) Congress.
    (b) Elements.--An assessment conducted under subsection (a)(1), 
with respect to an act described in such subsection, shall identify, to 
the maximum extent ascertainable, the following:
            (1) The nature of any foreign interference and any methods 
        employed to execute the act.
            (2) The persons involved.
            (3) The foreign government or governments that authorized, 
        directed, sponsored, or supported the act.
    (c) Publication.--In a case in which the Director conducts an 
assessment under subsection (a)(1) with respect to an election, the 
Director shall, as soon as practicable after the date of the conclusion 
of such election and not later than 60 days after the date of such 
conclusion, make available to the public, to the greatest extent 
possible consistent with the protection of sources and methods, the 
findings transmitted under subsection (a)(2).

SEC. 9409. STUDY ON FEASIBILITY AND ADVISABILITY OF ESTABLISHING 
              GEOSPATIAL-INTELLIGENCE MUSEUM AND LEARNING CENTER.

    (a) Study Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the National Geospatial-
Intelligence Agency shall complete a study on the feasibility and 
advisability of establishing a Geospatial-Intelligence Museum and 
learning center.
    (b) Elements.--The study required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) Identifying the costs, opportunities, and challenges of 
        establishing the museum and learning center as described in 
        such subsection.
            (2) Developing recommendations concerning such 
        establishment.
            (3) Identifying and reviewing lessons learned from the 
        establishment of the Cyber Center for Education and Innovation-
        Home of the National Cryptologic Museum under section 7781(a) 
        of title 10, United States Code.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees and the congressional defense committees (as 
defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code) a report on the 
findings of the Director with respect to the study completed under 
subsection (a).

SEC. 9410. REPORT ON DEATH OF JAMAL KHASHOGGI.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to Congress a report on the death of Jamal Khashoggi, consistent 
with protecting sources and methods. Such report shall include 
identification of those who carried out, participated in, ordered, or 
were otherwise complicit in or responsible for the death of Jamal 
Khashoggi.
    (b) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form.

 DIVISION G--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018 AND 2019

SEC. 10001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew 
Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2018 and 
2019''.

SEC. 10002. DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Congressional intelligence committees.--The term 
        ``congressional intelligence committees'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3003).
            (2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
        community'' has the meaning given such term in such section.

                   TITLE CI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 10101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2019.--Funds are hereby authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2019 for the conduct of the intelligence 
and intelligence-related activities of the following elements of the 
United States Government:
            (1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
            (2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
            (3) The Department of Defense.
            (4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
            (5) The National Security Agency.
            (6) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, 
        and the Department of the Air Force.
            (7) The Coast Guard.
            (8) The Department of State.
            (9) The Department of the Treasury.
            (10) The Department of Energy.
            (11) The Department of Justice.
            (12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
            (13) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
            (14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
            (15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
            (16) The Department of Homeland Security.
    (b) Fiscal Year 2018.--Funds that were appropriated for fiscal year 
2018 for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related 
activities of the elements of the United States set forth in subsection 
(a) are hereby authorized.

SEC. 10102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) Specifications of Amounts.--The amounts authorized to be 
appropriated under section 10101 for the conduct of the intelligence 
activities of the elements listed in paragraphs (1) through (16) of 
section 10101, are those specified in the classified Schedule of 
Authorizations prepared to accompany this division.
    (b) Availability of Classified Schedule of Authorizations.--
            (1) Availability.--The classified Schedule of 
        Authorizations referred to in subsection (a) shall be made 
        available to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, 
        and to the President.
            (2) Distribution by the president.--Subject to paragraph 
        (3), the President shall provide for suitable distribution of 
        the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
        subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of such Schedule, 
        within the executive branch.
            (3) Limits on disclosure.--The President shall not publicly 
        disclose the classified Schedule of Authorizations or any 
        portion of such Schedule except--
                    (A) as provided in section 601(a) of the 
                Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act 
                of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
                    (B) to the extent necessary to implement the 
                budget; or
                    (C) as otherwise required by law.

SEC. 10103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account of the 
Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2019 the sum of 
$522,424,000.
    (b) Classified Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to 
amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community 
Management Account by subsection (a), there are authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account for 
fiscal year 2019 such additional amounts as are specified in the 
classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 10102(a).

TITLE CII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

SEC. 10201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal year 
2019.

SEC. 10202. COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE CENTRAL 
              INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

    (a) Computation of Annuities.--
            (1) In general.--Section 221 of the Central Intelligence 
        Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2031) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(3)(B), by striking the period 
                at the end and inserting ``, as determined by using the 
                annual rate of basic pay that would be payable for 
                full-time service in that position.'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1)(C)(i), by striking ``12-
                month'' and inserting ``2-year'';
                    (C) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ``one year'' 
                and inserting ``two years'';
                    (D) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ``one year'' 
                each place such term appears and inserting ``two 
                years'';
                    (E) by redesignating subsections (h), (i), (j), 
                (k), and (l) as subsections (i), (j), (k), (l), and 
                (m), respectively; and
                    (F) by inserting after subsection (g) the 
                following:
    ``(h) Conditional Election of Insurable Interest Survivor Annuity 
by Participants Married at the Time of Retirement.--
            ``(1)  Authority to make designation.--Subject to the 
        rights of former spouses under subsection (b) and section 222, 
        at the time of retirement a married participant found by the 
        Director to be in good health may elect to receive an annuity 
        reduced in accordance with subsection (f)(1)(B) and designate 
        in writing an individual having an insurable interest in the 
        participant to receive an annuity under the system after the 
        participant's death, except that any such election to provide 
        an insurable interest survivor annuity to the participant's 
        spouse shall only be effective if the participant's spouse 
        waives the spousal right to a survivor annuity under this Act. 
        The amount of the annuity shall be equal to 55 percent of the 
        participant's reduced annuity.
            ``(2) Reduction in participant's annuity.--The annuity 
        payable to the participant making such election shall be 
        reduced by 10 percent of an annuity computed under subsection 
        (a) and by an additional 5 percent for each full 5 years the 
        designated individual is younger than the participant. The 
        total reduction under this subparagraph may not exceed 40 
        percent.
            ``(3) Commencement of survivor annuity.--The annuity 
        payable to the designated individual shall begin on the day 
        after the retired participant dies and terminate on the last 
        day of the month before the designated individual dies.
            ``(4) Recomputation of participant's annuity on death of 
        designated individual.--An annuity that is reduced under this 
        subsection shall, effective the first day of the month 
        following the death of the designated individual, be recomputed 
        and paid as if the annuity had not been so reduced.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Central intelligence agency retirement act.--
                The Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 
                U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) is amended--
                            (i) in section 232(b)(1) (50 U.S.C. 
                        2052(b)(1)), by striking ``221(h),'' and 
                        inserting ``221(i),''; and
                            (ii) in section 252(h)(4) (50 U.S.C. 
                        2082(h)(4)), by striking ``221(k)'' and 
                        inserting ``221(l)''.
                    (B) Central intelligence agency act of 1949.--
                Subsection (a) of section 14 of the Central 
                Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3514(a)) is 
                amended by striking ``221(h)(2), 221(i), 221(l),'' and 
                inserting ``221(i)(2), 221(j), 221(m),''.
    (b) Annuities for Former Spouses.--Subparagraph (B) of section 
222(b)(5) of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 
2032(b)(5)(B)) is amended by striking ``one year'' and inserting ``two 
years''.
    (c) Prior Service Credit.--Subparagraph (A) of section 252(b)(3) of 
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 
2082(b)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ``October 1, 1990'' both places 
that term appears and inserting ``March 31, 1991''.
    (d) Reemployment Compensation.--Section 273 of the Central 
Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2113) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (c) and (d), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Part-Time Reemployed Annuitants.--The Director shall have the 
authority to reemploy an annuitant on a part-time basis in accordance 
with section 8344(l) of title 5, United States Code.''.
    (e) Effective Date and Application.--The amendments made by 
subsection (a)(1)(A) and subsection (c) shall take effect as if enacted 
on October 28, 2009, and shall apply to computations or participants, 
respectively, as of such date.

           TITLE CIII--GENERAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

SEC. 10301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

    The authorization of appropriations by this division shall not be 
deemed to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence 
activity which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the 
laws of the United States.

SEC. 10302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED 
              BY LAW.

    Appropriations authorized by this division for salary, pay, 
retirement, and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased 
by such additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for 
increases in such compensation or benefits authorized by law.

SEC. 10303. MODIFICATION OF SPECIAL PAY AUTHORITY FOR SCIENCE, 
              TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, OR MATHEMATICS POSITIONS AND 
              ADDITION OF SPECIAL PAY AUTHORITY FOR CYBER POSITIONS.

    Section 113B of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3049a) 
is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Special Rates of Pay for Positions Requiring Expertise in 
Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding part III of title 5, 
        United States Code, the head of each element of the 
        intelligence community may, for 1 or more categories of 
        positions in such element that require expertise in science, 
        technology, engineering, or mathematics--
                    ``(A) establish higher minimum rates of pay; and
                    ``(B) make corresponding increases in all rates of 
                pay of the pay range for each grade or level, subject 
                to subsection (b) or (c), as applicable.
            ``(2) Treatment.--The special rate supplements resulting 
        from the establishment of higher rates under paragraph (1) 
        shall be basic pay for the same or similar purposes as those 
        specified in section 5305(j) of title 5, United States Code.'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (b) through (f) as 
        subsections (c) through (g), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Special Rates of Pay for Cyber Positions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (c), the 
        Director of the National Security Agency may establish a 
        special rate of pay--
                    ``(A) not to exceed the rate of basic pay payable 
                for level II of the Executive Schedule under section 
                5313 of title 5, United States Code, if the Director 
                certifies to the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Intelligence, in consultation with the Under Secretary 
                of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, that the rate 
                of pay is for positions that perform functions that 
                execute the cyber mission of the Agency; or
                    ``(B) not to exceed the rate of basic pay payable 
                for the Vice President of the United States under 
                section 104 of title 3, United States Code, if the 
                Director certifies to the Secretary of Defense, by 
                name, individuals that have advanced skills and 
                competencies and that perform critical functions that 
                execute the cyber mission of the Agency.
            ``(2) Pay limitation.--Employees receiving a special rate 
        under paragraph (1) shall be subject to an aggregate pay 
        limitation that parallels the limitation established in section 
        5307 of title 5, United States Code, except that--
                    ``(A) any allowance, differential, bonus, award, or 
                other similar cash payment in addition to basic pay 
                that is authorized under title 10, United States Code, 
                (or any other applicable law in addition to title 5 of 
                such Code, excluding the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
                1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.)) shall also be counted as 
                part of aggregate compensation; and
                    ``(B) aggregate compensation may not exceed the 
                rate established for the Vice President of the United 
                States under section 104 of title 3, United States 
                Code.
            ``(3) Limitation on number of recipients.--The number of 
        individuals who receive basic pay established under paragraph 
        (1)(B) may not exceed 100 at any time.
            ``(4) Limitation on use as comparative reference.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, special rates of 
        pay and the limitation established under paragraph (1)(B) may 
        not be used as comparative references for the purpose of fixing 
        the rates of basic pay or maximum pay limitations of qualified 
        positions under section 1599f of title 10, United States Code, 
        or section 226 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
        147).'';
            (4) in subsection (c), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
        striking ``A minimum'' and inserting ``Except as provided in 
        subsection (b), a minimum'';
            (5) in subsection (d), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
        inserting ``or (b)'' after ``by subsection (a)''; and
            (6) in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Not later than 
                90 days after the date of the enactment of the 
                Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017'' 
                and inserting ``Not later than 90 days after the date 
                of the enactment of the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew 
                Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal 
                Years 2018 and 2019''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ``or (b)'' 
                after ``subsection (a)''.

SEC. 10304. MODIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF 
              THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    Section 103G(a) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3032(a)) is amended by striking ``President'' and inserting 
``Director''.

SEC. 10305. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE REVIEW OF PLACEMENT OF 
              POSITIONS WITHIN THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY ON THE 
              EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE.

    (a) Review.--The Director of National Intelligence, in coordination 
with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, shall conduct 
a review of positions within the intelligence community regarding the 
placement of such positions on the Executive Schedule under subchapter 
II of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code. In carrying out such 
review, the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the 
Director of the Office of Personnel Management, shall determine--
            (1) the standards under which such review will be 
        conducted;
            (2) which positions should or should not be on the 
        Executive Schedule; and
            (3) for those positions that should be on the Executive 
        Schedule, the level of the Executive Schedule at which such 
        positions should be placed.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date on which the 
review under subsection (a) is completed, the Director of National 
Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, 
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate, and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of 
Representatives an unredacted report describing the standards by which 
the review was conducted and the outcome of the review.

SEC. 10306. SUPPLY CHAIN AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE RISK MANAGEMENT TASK 
              FORCE.

    (a) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
            (1) The congressional intelligence committees.
            (2) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
            (3) The Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security, and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of 
        the House of Representatives.
    (b) Requirement to Establish.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall establish a Supply Chain and Counterintelligence 
Risk Management Task Force to standardize information sharing between 
the intelligence community and the acquisition community of the United 
States Government with respect to the supply chain and 
counterintelligence risks.
    (c) Members.--The Supply Chain and Counterintelligence Risk 
Management Task Force established under subsection (b) shall be 
composed of--
            (1) a representative of the Defense Security Service of the 
        Department of Defense;
            (2) a representative of the General Services 
        Administration;
            (3) a representative of the Office of Federal Procurement 
        Policy of the Office of Management and Budget;
            (4) a representative of the Department of Homeland 
        Security;
            (5) a representative of the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation;
            (6) the Director of the National Counterintelligence and 
        Security Center; and
            (7) any other members the Director of National Intelligence 
        determines appropriate.
    (d) Security Clearances.--Each member of the Supply Chain and 
Counterintelligence Risk Management Task Force established under 
subsection (b) shall have a security clearance at the top secret level 
and be able to access sensitive compartmented information.
    (e) Annual Report.--The Supply Chain and Counterintelligence Risk 
Management Task Force established under subsection (b) shall submit to 
the appropriate congressional committees an annual report that 
describes the activities of the Task Force during the previous year, 
including identification of the supply chain and counterintelligence 
risks shared with the acquisition community of the United States 
Government by the intelligence community.

SEC. 10307. CONSIDERATION OF ADVERSARIAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND 
              CYBERSECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE WHEN SHARING INTELLIGENCE 
              WITH FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AND ENTITIES.

    Whenever the head of an element of the intelligence community 
enters into an intelligence sharing agreement with a foreign government 
or any other foreign entity, the head of the element shall consider the 
pervasiveness of telecommunications and cybersecurity infrastructure, 
equipment, and services provided by adversaries of the United States, 
particularly China and Russia, or entities of such adversaries in the 
country or region of the foreign government or other foreign entity 
entering into the agreement.

SEC. 10308. CYBER PROTECTION SUPPORT FOR THE PERSONNEL OF THE 
              INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY IN POSITIONS HIGHLY VULNERABLE TO 
              CYBER ATTACK.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Personal accounts.--The term ``personal accounts'' 
        means accounts for online and telecommunications services, 
        including telephone, residential Internet access, email, text 
        and multimedia messaging, cloud computing, social media, health 
        care, and financial services, used by personnel of the 
        intelligence community outside of the scope of their employment 
        with elements of the intelligence community.
            (2) Personal technology devices.--The term ``personal 
        technology devices'' means technology devices used by personnel 
        of the intelligence community outside of the scope of their 
        employment with elements of the intelligence community, 
        including networks to which such devices connect.
    (b) Authority to Provide Cyber Protection Support.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to a determination by the Director 
        of National Intelligence, the Director may provide cyber 
        protection support for the personal technology devices and 
        personal accounts of the personnel described in paragraph (2).
            (2) At-risk personnel.--The personnel described in this 
        paragraph are personnel of the intelligence community--
                    (A) who the Director determines to be highly 
                vulnerable to cyber attacks and hostile information 
                collection activities because of the positions occupied 
                by such personnel in the intelligence community; and
                    (B) whose personal technology devices or personal 
                accounts are highly vulnerable to cyber attacks and 
                hostile information collection activities.
    (c) Nature of Cyber Protection Support.--Subject to the 
availability of resources, the cyber protection support provided to 
personnel under subsection (b) may include training, advice, 
assistance, and other services relating to cyber attacks and hostile 
information collection activities.
    (d) Limitation on Support.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed--
            (1) to encourage personnel of the intelligence community to 
        use personal technology devices for official business; or
            (2) to authorize cyber protection support for senior 
        intelligence community personnel using personal devices, 
        networks, and personal accounts in an official capacity.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees a report on the provision of cyber protection 
support under subsection (b). The report shall include--
            (1) a description of the methodology used to make the 
        determination under subsection (b)(2); and
            (2) guidance for the use of cyber protection support and 
        tracking of support requests for personnel receiving cyber 
        protection support under subsection (b).

SEC. 10309. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY RELATING TO MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLY-
              CHAIN RISK.

    (a) Modification of Effective Date.--Subsection (f) of section 309 
of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
112-87; 50 U.S.C. 3329 note) is amended by striking ``the date that is 
180 days after''.
    (b) Repeal of Sunset.--Such section is amended by striking 
subsection (g).
    (c) Reports.--Such section, as amended by subsection (b), is 
further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f), as amended by 
        subsection (a), as subsection (g); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
    ``(f) Annual Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), not 
        later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the 
        Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019 and not less 
        frequently than once each calendar year thereafter, the 
        Director of National Intelligence shall, in consultation with 
        each head of a covered agency, submit to the congressional 
        intelligence committees (as defined in section 3 of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)), a report that 
        details the determinations and notifications made under 
        subsection (c) during the most recently completed calendar 
        year.
            ``(2) Initial report.--The first report submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall detail all the determinations and 
        notifications made under subsection (c) before the date of the 
        submittal of the report.''.

SEC. 10310. LIMITATIONS ON DETERMINATIONS REGARDING CERTAIN SECURITY 
              CLASSIFICATIONS.

    (a) Prohibition.--An officer of an element of the intelligence 
community who has been nominated by the President for a position that 
requires the advice and consent of the Senate may not make a 
classification decision with respect to information related to such 
officer's nomination.
    (b) Classification Determinations.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), in a 
        case in which an officer described in subsection (a) has been 
        nominated as described in such subsection and classification 
        authority rests with the officer or another officer who reports 
        directly to such officer, a classification decision with 
        respect to information relating to the officer shall be made by 
        the Director of National Intelligence.
            (2) Nominations of director of national intelligence.--In a 
        case described in paragraph (1) in which the officer nominated 
        is the Director of National Intelligence, the classification 
        decision shall be made by the Principal Deputy Director of 
        National Intelligence.
    (c) Reports.--Whenever the Director or the Principal Deputy 
Director makes a decision under subsection (b), the Director or the 
Principal Deputy Director, as the case may be, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report detailing the reasons 
for the decision.

SEC. 10311. JOINT INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY COUNCIL.

    (a) Meetings.--Section 101A(d) of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3022(d)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``regular''; and
            (2) by inserting ``as the Director considers appropriate'' 
        after ``Council''.
    (b) Report on Function and Utility of the Joint Intelligence 
Community Council.--
            (1) In general.--No later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence, in coordination with the Executive Office of the 
        President and members of the Joint Intelligence Community 
        Council, shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
        committees a report on the function and utility of the Joint 
        Intelligence Community Council.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The number of physical or virtual meetings held 
                by the Council per year since the Council's inception.
                    (B) A description of the effect and accomplishments 
                of the Council.
                    (C) An explanation of the unique role of the 
                Council relative to other entities, including with 
                respect to the National Security Council and the 
                Executive Committee of the intelligence community.
                    (D) Recommendations for the future role and 
                operation of the Council.
                    (E) Such other matters relating to the function and 
                utility of the Council as the Director considers 
                appropriate.
            (3) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 10312. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Core service.--The term ``core service'' means a 
        capability that is available to multiple elements of the 
        intelligence community and required for consistent operation of 
        the intelligence community information technology environment.
            (2) Intelligence community information technology 
        environment.--The term ``intelligence community information 
        technology environment'' means all of the information 
        technology services across the intelligence community, 
        including the data sharing and protection environment across 
        multiple classification domains.
    (b) Roles and Responsibilities.--
            (1) Director of national intelligence.--The Director of 
        National Intelligence shall be responsible for coordinating the 
        performance by elements of the intelligence community of the 
        intelligence community information technology environment, 
        including each of the following:
                    (A) Ensuring compliance with all applicable 
                environment rules and regulations of such environment.
                    (B) Ensuring measurable performance goals exist for 
                such environment.
                    (C) Documenting standards and practices of such 
                environment.
                    (D) Acting as an arbiter among elements of the 
                intelligence community related to any disagreements 
                arising out of the implementation of such environment.
                    (E) Delegating responsibilities to the elements of 
                the intelligence community and carrying out such other 
                responsibilities as are necessary for the effective 
                implementation of such environment.
            (2) Core service providers.--Providers of core services 
        shall be responsible for--
                    (A) providing core services, in coordination with 
                the Director of National Intelligence; and
                    (B) providing the Director with information 
                requested and required to fulfill the responsibilities 
                of the Director under paragraph (1).
            (3) Use of core services.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), each element of the intelligence community shall 
                use core services when such services are available.
                    (B) Exception.--The Director of National 
                Intelligence may provide for a written exception to the 
                requirement under subparagraph (A) if the Director 
                determines there is a compelling financial or mission 
                need for such exception.
    (c) Management Accountability.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
Intelligence shall designate and maintain one or more accountable 
executives of the intelligence community information technology 
environment to be responsible for--
            (1) management, financial control, and integration of such 
        environment;
            (2) overseeing the performance of each core service, 
        including establishing measurable service requirements and 
        schedules;
            (3) to the degree feasible, ensuring testing of each core 
        service of such environment, including testing by the intended 
        users, to evaluate performance against measurable service 
        requirements and to ensure the capability meets user 
        requirements; and
            (4) coordinate transition or restructuring efforts of such 
        environment, including phaseout of legacy systems.
    (d) Security Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
develop and maintain a security plan for the intelligence community 
information technology environment.
    (e) Long-term Roadmap.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and during each of the second and fourth 
fiscal quarters thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a long-term roadmap 
that shall include each of the following:
            (1) A description of the minimum required and desired core 
        service requirements, including--
                    (A) key performance parameters; and
                    (B) an assessment of current, measured performance.
            (2) implementation milestones for the intelligence 
        community information technology environment, including each of 
        the following:
                    (A) A schedule for expected deliveries of core 
                service capabilities during each of the following 
                phases:
                            (i) Concept refinement and technology 
                        maturity demonstration.
                            (ii) Development, integration, and 
                        demonstration.
                            (iii) Production, deployment, and 
                        sustainment.
                            (iv) System retirement.
                    (B) Dependencies of such core service capabilities.
                    (C) Plans for the transition or restructuring 
                necessary to incorporate core service capabilities.
                    (D) A description of any legacy systems and 
                discontinued capabilities to be phased out.
            (3) Such other matters as the Director determines 
        appropriate.
    (f) Business Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and during each of the second and fourth fiscal 
quarters thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit 
to the congressional intelligence committees a business plan that 
includes each of the following:
            (1) A systematic approach to identify core service funding 
        requests for the intelligence community information technology 
        environment within the proposed budget, including multiyear 
        plans to implement the long-term roadmap required by subsection 
        (e).
            (2) A uniform approach by which each element of the 
        intelligence community shall identify the cost of legacy 
        information technology or alternative capabilities where 
        services of the intelligence community information technology 
        environment will also be available.
            (3) A uniform effort by which each element of the 
        intelligence community shall identify transition and 
        restructuring costs for new, existing, and retiring services of 
        the intelligence community information technology environment, 
        as well as services of such environment that have changed 
        designations as a core service.
    (g) Quarterly Presentations.--Beginning not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
Intelligence shall provide to the congressional intelligence committees 
quarterly updates regarding ongoing implementation of the intelligence 
community information technology environment as compared to the 
requirements in the most recently submitted security plan required by 
subsection (d), long-term roadmap required by subsection (e), and 
business plan required by subsection (f).
    (h) Additional Notifications.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall provide timely notification to the congressional 
intelligence committees regarding any policy changes related to or 
affecting the intelligence community information technology 
environment, new initiatives or strategies related to or impacting such 
environment, and changes or deficiencies in the execution of the 
security plan required by subsection (d), long-term roadmap required by 
subsection (e), and business plan required by subsection (f)
    (i) Sunset.--The section shall have no effect on or after September 
30, 2024.

SEC. 10313. REPORT ON DEVELOPMENT OF SECURE MOBILE VOICE SOLUTION FOR 
              INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency and 
the Director of the National Security Agency, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a classified report on the 
feasibility, desirability, cost, and required schedule associated with 
the implementation of a secure mobile voice solution for the 
intelligence community.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include, 
at a minimum, the following:
            (1) The benefits and disadvantages of a secure mobile voice 
        solution.
            (2) Whether the intelligence community could leverage 
        commercially available technology for classified voice 
        communications that operates on commercial mobile networks in a 
        secure manner and identifying the accompanying security risks 
        to such networks.
            (3) A description of any policies or community guidance 
        that would be necessary to govern the potential solution, such 
        as a process for determining the appropriate use of a secure 
        mobile telephone and any limitations associated with such use.

SEC. 10314. POLICY ON MINIMUM INSIDER THREAT STANDARDS.

    (a) Policy Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
establish a policy for minimum insider threat standards that is 
consistent with the National Insider Threat Policy and Minimum 
Standards for Executive Branch Insider Threat Programs.
    (b) Implementation.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the head of each element of the intelligence 
community shall implement the policy established under subsection (a).

SEC. 10315. SUBMISSION OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY POLICIES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Electronic repository.--The term ``electronic 
        repository'' means the electronic distribution mechanism, in 
        use as of the date of the enactment of this Act, or any 
        successor electronic distribution mechanism, by which the 
        Director of National Intelligence submits to the congressional 
        intelligence committees information.
            (2) Policy.--The term ``policy'', with respect to the 
        intelligence community, includes unclassified or classified--
                    (A) directives, policy guidance, and policy 
                memoranda of the intelligence community;
                    (B) executive correspondence of the Director of 
                National Intelligence; and
                    (C) any equivalent successor policy instruments.
    (b) Submission of Policies.--
            (1) Current policy.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
        committees using the electronic repository all nonpublicly 
        available policies issued by the Director of National 
        Intelligence for the intelligence community that are in effect 
        as of the date of the submission.
            (2) Continuous updates.--Not later than 15 days after the 
        date on which the Director of National Intelligence issues, 
        modifies, or rescinds a policy of the intelligence community, 
        the Director shall--
                    (A) notify the congressional intelligence 
                committees of such addition, modification, or removal; 
                and
                    (B) update the electronic repository with respect 
                to such addition, modification, or removal.

SEC. 10316. EXPANSION OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY RECRUITMENT EFFORTS.

    In order to further increase the diversity of the intelligence 
community workforce, not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with heads of elements of the Intelligence Community, 
shall create, implement, and submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees a written plan to ensure that rural and underrepresented 
regions are more fully and consistently represented in such elements' 
employment recruitment efforts. Upon receipt of the plan, the 
congressional committees shall have 60 days to submit comments to the 
Director of National Intelligence before such plan shall be 
implemented.

 TITLE CIV--MATTERS RELATING TO ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY

      Subtitle A--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

SEC. 10401. AUTHORITY FOR PROTECTION OF CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES OF 
              THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.

    Section 5(a)(4) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
U.S.C. 3506(a)(4)) is amended by striking ``such personnel of the 
Office of the Director of National Intelligence as the Director of 
National Intelligence may designate;'' and inserting ``current and 
former personnel of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence 
and their immediate families as the Director of National Intelligence 
may designate;''.

SEC. 10402. DESIGNATION OF THE PROGRAM MANAGER-INFORMATION SHARING 
              ENVIRONMENT.

    (a) Information Sharing Environment.--Section 1016(b) of the 
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 
485(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``President'' and 
        inserting ``Director of National Intelligence''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``President'' both places 
        that term appears and inserting ``Director of National 
        Intelligence''.
    (b) Program Manager.--Section 1016(f)(1) of the Intelligence Reform 
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 485(f)(1)) is amended by 
striking ``The individual designated as the program manager shall serve 
as program manager until removed from service or replaced by the 
President (at the President's sole discretion).'' and inserting 
``Beginning on the date of the enactment of the Damon Paul Nelson and 
Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 
2018 and 2019, each individual designated as the program manager shall 
be appointed by the Director of National Intelligence.''.

SEC. 10403. TECHNICAL MODIFICATION TO THE EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE.

    Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security 
Center.''.

SEC. 10404. CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    Section 103I(a) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3034(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
``The Chief Financial Officer shall report directly to the Director of 
National Intelligence.''.

SEC. 10405. CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    Section 103G(a) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3032(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
``The Chief Information Officer shall report directly to the Director 
of National Intelligence.''.

                Subtitle B--Central Intelligence Agency

SEC. 10411. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY SUBSISTENCE FOR PERSONNEL 
              ASSIGNED TO AUSTERE LOCATIONS.

    Subsection (a) of section 5 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act 
of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3506) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 403-4a).,'' 
        and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 403-4a),'';
            (2) in paragraph (6), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (3) in paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph (8):
            ``(8) Upon the approval of the Director, provide, during 
        any fiscal year, with or without reimbursement, subsistence to 
        any personnel assigned to an overseas location designated by 
        the Agency as an austere location.''.

SEC. 10412. EXPANSION OF SECURITY PROTECTIVE SERVICE JURISDICTION OF 
              THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

    Subsection (a) of section 15 of the Central Intelligence Act of 
1949 (50 U.S.C. 3515(a)) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Policemen'' 
        and inserting ``Police Officers''; and
            (2) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``500 feet;'' 
                and inserting ``500 yards;''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``500 feet.'' 
                and inserting ``500 yards.''.

SEC. 10413. REPEAL OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY REQUIREMENT FOR 
              CERTAIN SENIOR LEVEL POSITIONS IN THE CENTRAL 
              INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

    (a) Repeal of Foreign Language Proficiency Requirement.--Section 
104A of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3036) is amended 
by striking subsection (g).
    (b) Conforming Repeal of Report Requirement.--Section 611 of the 
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-
487) is amended by striking subsection (c).

     Subtitle C--Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence of 
                          Department of Energy

SEC. 10421. CONSOLIDATION OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OFFICES OF 
              INTELLIGENCE AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 215 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7144b) is amended to read as follows:

            ``office of intelligence and counterintelligence

    ``Sec. 215.  (a) Definitions.--In this section, the terms 
`intelligence community' and `National Intelligence Program' have the 
meanings given such terms in section 3 of the National Security Act of 
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
    ``(b) In General.--There is in the Department an Office of 
Intelligence and Counterintelligence. Such office shall be under the 
National Intelligence Program.
    ``(c) Director.--(1) The head of the Office shall be the Director 
of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, who shall be an 
employee in the Senior Executive Service, the Senior Intelligence 
Service, the Senior National Intelligence Service, or any other Service 
that the Secretary, in coordination with the Director of National 
Intelligence, considers appropriate. The Director of the Office shall 
report directly to the Secretary.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall select an individual to serve as the 
Director from among individuals who have substantial expertise in 
matters relating to the intelligence community, including foreign 
intelligence and counterintelligence.
    ``(d) Duties.--(1) Subject to the authority, direction, and control 
of the Secretary, the Director shall perform such duties and exercise 
such powers as the Secretary may prescribe.
    ``(2) The Director shall be responsible for establishing policy for 
intelligence and counterintelligence programs and activities at the 
Department.''.
    (b) Conforming Repeal.--Section 216 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7144c) is hereby repealed.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents at the beginning of 
the Department of Energy Organization Act is amended by striking the 
items relating to sections 215 and 216 and inserting the following new 
item:

``215. Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence.''.

SEC. 10422. REPEAL OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY INTELLIGENCE EXECUTIVE 
              COMMITTEE AND BUDGET REPORTING REQUIREMENT.

    Section 214 of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7144a) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a) Duty of Secretary.--''; and
            (2) by striking subsections (b) and (c).

                       Subtitle D--Other Elements

SEC. 10431. PLAN FOR DESIGNATION OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE COMPONENT OF 
              DEFENSE SECURITY SERVICE AS AN ELEMENT OF INTELLIGENCE 
              COMMUNITY.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Director of National Intelligence and Under Secretary of Defense 
for Intelligence, in coordination with the Director of the National 
Counterintelligence and Security Center, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on Armed Services 
of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives a plan to designate the counterintelligence component 
of the Defense Security Service of the Department of Defense as an 
element of the intelligence community by not later than January 1, 
2019. Such plan shall--
            (1) address the implications of such designation on the 
        authorities, governance, personnel, resources, information 
        technology, collection, analytic products, information sharing, 
        and business processes of the Defense Security Service and the 
        intelligence community; and
            (2) not address the personnel security functions of the 
        Defense Security Service.

SEC. 10432. NOTICE NOT REQUIRED FOR PRIVATE ENTITIES.

    Section 3553 of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection (k); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (i) the following:
    ``(j) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to require the Secretary to provide notice to any private 
entity before the Secretary issues a binding operational directive 
under subsection (b)(2).''.

SEC. 10433. FRAMEWORK FOR ROLES, MISSIONS, AND FUNCTIONS OF DEFENSE 
              INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

    (a) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence and the 
Secretary of Defense shall jointly establish a framework to ensure the 
appropriate balance of resources for the roles, missions, and functions 
of the Defense Intelligence Agency in its capacity as an element of the 
intelligence community and as a combat support agency. The framework 
shall include supporting processes to provide for the consistent and 
regular reevaluation of the responsibilities and resources of the 
Defense Intelligence Agency to prevent imbalanced priorities, 
insufficient or misaligned resources, and the unauthorized expansion of 
mission parameters.
    (b) Matters for Inclusion.--The framework required under subsection 
(a) shall include each of the following:
            (1) A lexicon providing for consistent definitions of 
        relevant terms used by both the intelligence community and the 
        Department of Defense, including each of the following:
                    (A) Defense intelligence enterprise.
                    (B) Enterprise manager.
                    (C) Executive agent.
                    (D) Function.
                    (E) Functional manager.
                    (F) Mission.
                    (G) Mission manager.
                    (H) Responsibility.
                    (I) Role.
                    (J) Service of common concern.
            (2) An assessment of the necessity of maintaining separate 
        designations for the intelligence community and the Department 
        of Defense for intelligence functional or enterprise management 
        constructs.
            (3) A repeatable process for evaluating the addition, 
        transfer, or elimination of defense intelligence missions, 
        roles, and functions, currently performed or to be performed in 
        the future by the Defense Intelligence Agency, which includes 
        each of the following:
                    (A) A justification for the addition, transfer, or 
                elimination of a mission, role, or function.
                    (B) The identification of which, if any, element of 
                the Federal Government performs the considered mission, 
                role, or function.
                    (C) In the case of any new mission, role, or 
                function--
                            (i) an assessment of the most appropriate 
                        agency or element to perform such mission, 
                        role, or function, taking into account the 
                        resource profiles, scope of responsibilities, 
                        primary customers, and existing infrastructure 
                        necessary to support such mission, role, or 
                        function; and
                            (ii) a determination of the appropriate 
                        resource profile and an identification of the 
                        projected resources needed and the proposed 
                        source of such resources over the future-years 
                        defense program, to be provided in writing to 
                        any elements of the intelligence community or 
                        the Department of Defense affected by the 
                        assumption, transfer, or elimination of any 
                        mission, role, or function.
                    (D) In the case of any mission, role, or function 
                proposed to be assumed, transferred, or eliminated, an 
                assessment, which shall be completed jointly by the 
                heads of each element affected by such assumption, 
                transfer, or elimination, of the risks that would be 
                assumed by the intelligence community and the 
                Department if such mission, role, or function is 
                assumed, transferred, or eliminated.
                    (E) A description of how determinations are made 
                regarding the funding of programs and activities under 
                the National Intelligence Program and the Military 
                Intelligence Program, including--
                            (i) which programs or activities are funded 
                        under each such Program;
                            (ii) which programs or activities should be 
                        jointly funded under both such Programs and how 
                        determinations are made with respect to funding 
                        allocations for such programs and activities; 
                        and
                            (iii) the thresholds and process for 
                        changing a program or activity from being 
                        funded under one such Program to being funded 
                        under the other such Program.

SEC. 10434. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY BOARD FOR NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE 
              OFFICE.

    (a) Establishment.--Section 106A of the National Security Act of 
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041a) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new subsection:
    ``(d) Advisory Board.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--There is established in the National 
        Reconnaissance Office an advisory board (in this section 
        referred to as the `Board').
            ``(2) Duties.--The Board shall--
                    ``(A) study matters relating to the mission of the 
                National Reconnaissance Office, including with respect 
                to promoting innovation, competition, and resilience in 
                space, overhead reconnaissance, acquisition, and other 
                matters; and
                    ``(B) advise and report directly to the Director 
                with respect to such matters.
            ``(3) Members.--
                    ``(A) Number and appointment.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Board shall be 
                        composed of 5 members appointed by the Director 
                        from among individuals with demonstrated 
                        academic, government, business, or other 
                        expertise relevant to the mission and functions 
                        of the National Reconnaissance Office.
                            ``(ii) Notification.--Not later than 30 
                        days after the date on which the Director 
                        appoints a member to the Board, the Director 
                        shall notify the congressional intelligence 
                        committees and the congressional defense 
                        committees (as defined in section 101(a) of 
                        title 10, United States Code) of such 
                        appointment.
                    ``(B) Terms.--Each member shall be appointed for a 
                term of 2 years. Except as provided by subparagraph 
                (C), a member may not serve more than 3 terms.
                    ``(C) Vacancy.--Any member appointed to fill a 
                vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for 
                which the member's predecessor was appointed shall be 
                appointed only for the remainder of that term. A member 
                may serve after the expiration of that member's term 
                until a successor has taken office.
                    ``(D) Chair.--The Board shall have a Chair, who 
                shall be appointed by the Director from among the 
                members.
                    ``(E) Travel expenses.--Each member shall receive 
                travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
                subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions 
                under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United 
                States Code.
                    ``(F) Executive secretary.--The Director may 
                appoint an executive secretary, who shall be an 
                employee of the National Reconnaissance Office, to 
                support the Board.
            ``(4) Meetings.--The Board shall meet not less than 
        quarterly, but may meet more frequently at the call of the 
        Director.
            ``(5) Reports.--Not later than March 31 of each year, the 
        Board shall submit to the Director and to the congressional 
        intelligence committees a report on the activities and 
        significant findings of the Board during the preceding year.
            ``(6) Nonapplicability of certain requirements.--The 
        Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply 
        to the Board.
            ``(7) Termination.--The Board shall terminate on the date 
        that is 3 years after the date of the first meeting of the 
        Board.''.
    (b) Initial Appointments.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the National 
Reconnaissance Office shall appoint the initial 5 members to the 
advisory board under subsection (d) of section 106A of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041a), as added by subsection (a).

SEC. 10435. COLLOCATION OF CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY 
              PERSONNEL AT FIELD LOCATIONS.

    (a) Identification of Opportunities for Collocation.--Not later 
than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under 
Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis shall 
identify, in consultation with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection, the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration, the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement, and the heads of such other elements of the Department of 
Homeland Security as the Under Secretary considers appropriate, 
opportunities for collocation of officers of the Office of Intelligence 
and Analysis in the field outside of the greater Washington, District 
of Columbia, area in order to support operational units from U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection, the Transportation Security 
Administration, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and other 
elements of the Department of Homeland Security.
    (b) Plan for Collocation.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report that includes a plan for 
collocation as described in subsection (a).

                       TITLE CV--ELECTION MATTERS

SEC. 10501. REPORT ON CYBER ATTACKS BY FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST 
              UNITED STATES ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (D) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate; and
                    (E) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Congressional leadership.--The term ``congressional 
        leadership'' includes the following:
                    (A) The majority leader of the Senate.
                    (B) The minority leader of the Senate.
                    (C) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.
                    (D) The minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means any State of the 
        United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United 
        States.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
Intelligence and Analysis shall submit to congressional leadership and 
the appropriate congressional committees a report on cyber attacks and 
attempted cyber attacks by foreign governments on United States 
election infrastructure in States and localities in connection with the 
2016 Presidential election in the United States and such cyber attacks 
or attempted cyber attacks as the Under Secretary anticipates against 
such infrastructure. Such report shall identify the States and 
localities affected and shall include cyber attacks and attempted cyber 
attacks against voter registration databases, voting machines, voting-
related computer networks, and the networks of Secretaries of State and 
other election officials of the various States.
    (c) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 10502. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY'S POSTURE TO COLLECT 
              AGAINST AND ANALYZE RUSSIAN EFFORTS TO INFLUENCE THE 
              PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.

    (a) Review Required.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall--
            (1) complete an after action review of the posture of the 
        intelligence community to collect against and analyze efforts 
        of the Government of Russia to interfere in the 2016 
        Presidential election in the United States; and
            (2) submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
        report on the findings of the Director with respect to such 
        review.
    (b) Elements.--The review required by subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to the posture and efforts described in paragraph (1) of 
such subsection, the following:
            (1) An assessment of whether the resources of the 
        intelligence community were properly aligned to detect and 
        respond to the efforts described in subsection (a)(1).
            (2) An assessment of the information sharing that occurred 
        within elements of the intelligence community.
            (3) An assessment of the information sharing that occurred 
        between elements of the intelligence community.
            (4) An assessment of applicable authorities necessary to 
        collect on any such efforts and any deficiencies in those 
        authorities.
            (5) A review of the use of open source material to inform 
        analysis and warning of such efforts.
            (6) A review of the use of alternative and predictive 
        analysis.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a)(2) shall 
be submitted to the congressional intelligence committees in a 
classified form.

SEC. 10503. ASSESSMENT OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE THREATS TO FEDERAL 
              ELECTIONS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Congressional leadership.--The term ``congressional 
        leadership'' includes the following:
                    (A) The majority leader of the Senate.
                    (B) The minority leader of the Senate.
                    (C) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.
                    (D) The minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (3) Security vulnerability.--The term ``security 
        vulnerability'' has the meaning given such term in section 102 
        of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 
        1501).
    (b) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the 
Director of the National Security Agency, the Director of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the 
heads of other relevant elements of the intelligence community, shall--
            (1) commence not later than 1 year before any regularly 
        scheduled Federal election occurring after December 31, 2018, 
        and complete not later than 180 days before such election, an 
        assessment of security vulnerabilities of State election 
        systems; and
            (2) not later than 180 days before any regularly scheduled 
        Federal election occurring after December 31, 2018, submit a 
        report on such security vulnerabilities and an assessment of 
        foreign intelligence threats to the election to--
                    (A) congressional leadership; and
                    (B) the appropriate congressional committees.
    (c) Update.--Not later than 90 days before any regularly scheduled 
Federal election occurring after December 31, 2018, the Director of 
National Intelligence shall--
            (1) update the assessment of foreign intelligence threats 
        to that election; and
            (2) submit the updated assessment to--
                    (A) congressional leadership; and
                    (B) the appropriate congressional committees.

SEC. 10504. STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING RUSSIAN CYBER THREATS TO UNITED 
              STATES ELECTIONS.

    (a) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
            (1) The congressional intelligence committees.
            (2) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
            (3) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
            (4) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
            (5) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (b) Requirement for a Strategy.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
Intelligence, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Director of 
the Central Intelligence Agency, the Secretary of State, the Secretary 
of Defense, and the Secretary of the Treasury, shall develop a whole-
of-government strategy for countering the threat of Russian cyber 
attacks and attempted cyber attacks against electoral systems and 
processes in the United States, including Federal, State, and local 
election systems, voter registration databases, voting tabulation 
equipment, and equipment and processes for the secure transmission of 
election results.
    (c) Elements of the Strategy.--The strategy required by subsection 
(b) shall include the following elements:
            (1) A whole-of-government approach to protecting United 
        States electoral systems and processes that includes the 
        agencies and departments indicated in subsection (b) as well as 
        any other agencies and departments of the United States, as 
        determined appropriate by the Director of National Intelligence 
        and the Secretary of Homeland Security.
            (2) Input solicited from Secretaries of State of the 
        various States and the chief election officials of the States.
            (3) Technical security measures, including auditable paper 
        trails for voting machines, securing wireless and Internet 
        connections, and other technical safeguards.
            (4) Detection of cyber threats, including attacks and 
        attempted attacks by Russian government or nongovernment cyber 
        threat actors.
            (5) Improvements in the identification and attribution of 
        Russian government or nongovernment cyber threat actors.
            (6) Deterrence, including actions and measures that could 
        or should be undertaken against or communicated to the 
        Government of Russia or other entities to deter attacks 
        against, or interference with, United States election systems 
        and processes.
            (7) Improvements in Federal Government communications with 
        State and local election officials.
            (8) Public education and communication efforts.
            (9) Benchmarks and milestones to enable the measurement of 
        concrete steps taken and progress made in the implementation of 
        the strategy.
    (d) Congressional Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence and 
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly brief the appropriate 
congressional committees on the strategy developed under subsection 
(b).

SEC. 10505. ASSESSMENT OF SIGNIFICANT RUSSIAN INFLUENCE CAMPAIGNS 
              DIRECTED AT FOREIGN ELECTIONS AND REFERENDA.

    (a) Russian Influence Campaign Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Russian influence campaign'' means any effort, covert or overt, and 
by any means, attributable to the Russian Federation directed at an 
election, referendum, or similar process in a country other than the 
Russian Federation or the United States.
    (b) Assessment Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report containing 
an analytical assessment of the most significant Russian influence 
campaigns, if any, conducted during the 3-year period preceding the 
date of the enactment of this Act, as well as the most significant 
current or planned such Russian influence campaigns, if any. Such 
assessment shall include--
            (1) a summary of such significant Russian influence 
        campaigns, including, at a minimum, the specific means by which 
        such campaigns were conducted, are being conducted, or likely 
        will be conducted, as appropriate, and the specific goal of 
        each such campaign;
            (2) a summary of any defenses against or responses to such 
        Russian influence campaigns by the foreign state holding the 
        elections or referenda;
            (3) a summary of any relevant activities by elements of the 
        intelligence community undertaken for the purpose of assisting 
        the government of such foreign state in defending against or 
        responding to such Russian influence campaigns; and
            (4) an assessment of the effectiveness of such defenses and 
        responses described in paragraphs (2) and (3).
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (b) may be submitted 
in classified form, but if so submitted, shall contain an unclassified 
summary.

SEC. 10506. FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND CYBERSECURITY THREATS TO 
              FEDERAL ELECTION CAMPAIGNS.

    (a) Reports Required.--
            (1) In general.--As provided in paragraph (2), for each 
        Federal election, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
        coordination with the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
        Intelligence and Analysis and the Director of the Federal 
        Bureau of Investigation, shall make publicly available on an 
        Internet website an advisory report on foreign 
        counterintelligence and cybersecurity threats to election 
        campaigns for Federal offices. Each such report shall include, 
        consistent with the protection of sources and methods, each of 
        the following:
                    (A) A description of foreign counterintelligence 
                and cybersecurity threats to election campaigns for 
                Federal offices.
                    (B) A summary of best practices that election 
                campaigns for Federal offices can employ in seeking to 
                counter such threats.
                    (C) An identification of any publicly available 
                resources, including United States Government 
                resources, for countering such threats.
            (2) Schedule for submittal.--A report under this subsection 
        shall be made available as follows:
                    (A) In the case of a report regarding an election 
                held for the office of Senator or Member of the House 
                of Representatives during 2018, not later than the date 
                that is 60 days after the date of the enactment of this 
                Act.
                    (B) In the case of a report regarding an election 
                for a Federal office during any subsequent year, not 
                later than the date that is 1 year before the date of 
                the election.
            (3) Information to be included.--A report under this 
        subsection shall reflect the most current information available 
        to the Director of National Intelligence regarding foreign 
        counterintelligence and cybersecurity threats.
    (b) Treatment of Campaigns Subject to Heightened Threats.--If the 
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Under Secretary 
of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis jointly determine 
that an election campaign for Federal office is subject to a heightened 
foreign counterintelligence or cybersecurity threat, the Director and 
the Under Secretary, consistent with the protection of sources and 
methods, may make available additional information to the appropriate 
representatives of such campaign.

SEC. 10507. INFORMATION SHARING WITH STATE ELECTION OFFICIALS.

    (a) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' means any 
State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth 
of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States.
    (b) Security Clearances.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall support the Under Secretary of Homeland 
        Security for Intelligence and Analysis, and any other official 
        of the Department of Homeland Security designated by the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security, in sponsoring a security 
        clearance up to the top secret level for each eligible chief 
        election official of a State or the District of Columbia, and 
        additional eligible designees of such election official as 
        appropriate, at the time that such election official assumes 
        such position.
            (2) Interim clearances.--Consistent with applicable 
        policies and directives, the Director of National Intelligence 
        may issue interim clearances, for a period to be determined by 
        the Director, to a chief election official as described in 
        paragraph (1) and up to 1 designee of such official under such 
        paragraph.
    (c) Information Sharing.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence 
        shall assist the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
        Intelligence and Analysis and the Under Secretary responsible 
        for overseeing critical infrastructure protection, 
        cybersecurity, and other related programs of the Department (as 
        specified in section 103(a)(1)(H) of the Homeland Security Act 
        of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 113(a)(1)(H))) with sharing any appropriate 
        classified information related to threats to election systems 
        and to the integrity of the election process with chief 
        election officials and such designees who have received a 
        security clearance under subsection (b).
            (2) Coordination.--The Under Secretary of Homeland Security 
        for Intelligence and Analysis shall coordinate with the 
        Director of National Intelligence and the Under Secretary 
        responsible for overseeing critical infrastructure protection, 
        cybersecurity, and other related programs of the Department (as 
        specified in section 103(a)(1)(H) of the Homeland Security Act 
        of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 113(a)(1)(H))) to facilitate the sharing of 
        information to the affected Secretaries of State or States.

SEC. 10508. NOTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT FOREIGN CYBER INTRUSIONS AND 
              ACTIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGNS DIRECTED AT ELECTIONS FOR 
              FEDERAL OFFICES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Active measures campaign.--The term ``active measures 
        campaign'' means a foreign semi-covert or covert intelligence 
        operation.
            (2) Candidate, election, and political party.--The terms 
        ``candidate'', ``election'', and ``political party'' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 301 of the Federal 
        Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101).
            (3) Congressional leadership.--The term ``congressional 
        leadership'' includes the following:
                    (A) The majority leader of the Senate.
                    (B) The minority leader of the Senate.
                    (C) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.
                    (D) The minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (4) Cyber intrusion.--The term ``cyber intrusion'' means an 
        electronic occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, 
        without lawful authority, electronic election infrastructure, 
        or the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of 
        information within such infrastructure.
            (5) Electronic election infrastructure.--The term 
        ``electronic election infrastructure'' means an electronic 
        information system of any of the following that is related to 
        an election for Federal office:
                    (A) The Federal Government.
                    (B) A State or local government.
                    (C) A political party.
                    (D) The election campaign of a candidate.
            (6) Federal office.--The term ``Federal office'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 301 of the Federal Election 
        Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101).
            (7) High confidence.--The term ``high confidence'', with 
        respect to a determination, means that the determination is 
        based on high-quality information from multiple sources.
            (8) Moderate confidence.--The term ``moderate confidence'', 
        with respect to a determination, means that a determination is 
        credibly sourced and plausible but not of sufficient quality or 
        corroborated sufficiently to warrant a higher level of 
        confidence.
            (9) Other appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``other appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the 
                Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Homeland Security, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Determinations of Significant Foreign Cyber Intrusions and 
Active Measures Campaigns.--The Director of National Intelligence, the 
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall jointly carry out subsection (c) if such 
Directors and the Secretary jointly determine--
            (1) that on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
        a significant foreign cyber intrusion or active measures 
        campaign intended to influence an upcoming election for any 
        Federal office has occurred or is occurring; and
            (2) with moderate or high confidence, that such intrusion 
        or campaign can be attributed to a foreign state or to a 
        foreign nonstate person, group, or other entity.
    (c) Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 14 days after making a 
        determination under subsection (b), the Director of National 
        Intelligence, the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        jointly provide a briefing to the congressional leadership, the 
        congressional intelligence committees and, consistent with the 
        protection of sources and methods, the other appropriate 
        congressional committees. The briefing shall be classified and 
        address, at a minimum, the following:
                    (A) A description of the significant foreign cyber 
                intrusion or active measures campaign, as the case may 
                be, covered by the determination.
                    (B) An identification of the foreign state or 
                foreign nonstate person, group, or other entity, to 
                which such intrusion or campaign has been attributed.
                    (C) The desirability and feasibility of the public 
                release of information about the cyber intrusion or 
                active measures campaign.
                    (D) Any other information such Directors and the 
                Secretary jointly determine appropriate.
            (2) Electronic election infrastructure briefings.--With 
        respect to a significant foreign cyber intrusion covered by a 
        determination under subsection (b), the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security, in consultation with the Director of National 
        Intelligence and the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation, shall offer to the owner or operator of any 
        electronic election infrastructure directly affected by such 
        intrusion, a briefing on such intrusion, including steps that 
        may be taken to mitigate such intrusion. Such briefing may be 
        classified and made available only to individuals with 
        appropriate security clearances.
            (3) Protection of sources and methods.--This subsection 
        shall be carried out in a manner that is consistent with the 
        protection of sources and methods.

SEC. 10509. DESIGNATION OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OFFICER TO LEAD ELECTION 
              SECURITY MATTERS.

    (a) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
designate a national counterintelligence officer within the National 
Counterintelligence and Security Center to lead, manage, and coordinate 
counterintelligence matters relating to election security.
    (b) Additional Responsibilities.--The person designated under 
subsection (a) shall also lead, manage, and coordinate 
counterintelligence matters relating to risks posed by interference 
from foreign powers (as defined in section 101 of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801)) to the 
following:
            (1) The Federal Government election security supply chain.
            (2) Election voting systems and software.
            (3) Voter registration databases.
            (4) Critical infrastructure related to elections.
            (5) Such other Government goods and services as the 
        Director of National Intelligence considers appropriate.

                     TITLE CVI--SECURITY CLEARANCES

SEC. 10601. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (E) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (F) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (G) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (H) the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the 
                House of Representatives.
            (2) Appropriate industry partners.--The term ``appropriate 
        industry partner'' means a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as 
        defined in section 101(a) of Executive Order 12829 (50 U.S.C. 
        3161 note; relating to National Industrial Security Program)) 
        that is participating in the National Industrial Security 
        Program established by such Executive Order.
            (3) Continuous vetting.--The term ``continuous vetting'' 
        has the meaning given such term in Executive Order 13467 (50 
        U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to reforming processes related to 
        suitability for government employment, fitness for contractor 
        employees, and eligibility for access to classified national 
        security information).
            (4) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the Security, 
        Suitability, and Credentialing Performance Accountability 
        Council established pursuant to such Executive Order, or any 
        successor entity.
            (5) Security executive agent.--The term ``Security 
        Executive Agent'' means the officer serving as the Security 
        Executive Agent pursuant to section 803 of the National 
        Security Act of 1947, as added by section 10605.
            (6) Suitability and credentialing executive agent.--The 
        term ``Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent'' means 
        the Director of the Office of Personnel Management acting as 
        the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent in accordance 
        with Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to 
        reforming processes related to suitability for government 
        employment, fitness for contractor employees, and eligibility 
        for access to classified national security information), or any 
        successor entity.

SEC. 10602. REPORTS AND PLANS RELATING TO SECURITY CLEARANCES AND 
              BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) ensuring the trustworthiness and security of the 
        workforce, facilities, and information of the Federal 
        Government is of the highest priority to national security and 
        public safety;
            (2) the President and Congress should prioritize the 
        modernization of the personnel security framework to improve 
        its efficiency, effectiveness, and accountability;
            (3) the current system for security clearance, suitability 
        and fitness for employment, and credentialing lacks 
        efficiencies and capabilities to meet the current threat 
        environment, recruit and retain a trusted workforce, and 
        capitalize on modern technologies; and
            (4) changes to policies or processes to improve this system 
        should be vetted through the Council to ensure standardization, 
        portability, and reciprocity in security clearances across the 
        Federal Government.
    (b) Accountability Plans and Reports.--
            (1) Plans.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Council shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees and make available to 
        appropriate industry partners the following:
                    (A) A plan, with milestones, to reduce the 
                background investigation inventory to 200,000, or an 
                otherwise sustainable steady-level, by the end of year 
                2020. Such plan shall include notes of any required 
                changes in investigative and adjudicative standards or 
                resources.
                    (B) A plan to consolidate the conduct of background 
                investigations associated with the processing for 
                security clearances in the most effective and efficient 
                manner between the National Background Investigation 
                Bureau and the Defense Security Service, or a successor 
                organization. Such plan shall address required funding, 
                personnel, contracts, information technology, field 
                office structure, policy, governance, schedule, 
                transition costs, and effects on stakeholders.
            (2) Report on the future of personnel security.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the 
                Council, in coordination with the members of the 
                Council, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
                committees and make available to appropriate industry 
                partners a report on the future of personnel security 
                to reflect changes in threats, the workforce, and 
                technology.
                    (B) Contents.--The report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) A risk framework for granting and 
                        renewing access to classified information.
                            (ii) A discussion of the use of 
                        technologies to prevent, detect, and monitor 
                        threats.
                            (iii) A discussion of efforts to address 
                        reciprocity and portability.
                            (iv) A discussion of the characteristics of 
                        effective insider threat programs.
                            (v) An analysis of how to integrate data 
                        from continuous evaluation, insider threat 
                        programs, and human resources data.
                            (vi) Recommendations on interagency 
                        governance.
            (3) Plan for implementation.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the 
        Council, in coordination with the members of the Council, shall 
        submit to the appropriate congressional committees and make 
        available to appropriate industry partners a plan to implement 
        the report's framework and recommendations submitted under 
        paragraph (2)(A).
            (4) Congressional notifications.--Not less frequently than 
        quarterly, the Security Executive Agent shall make available to 
        the public a report regarding the status of the disposition of 
        requests received from departments and agencies of the Federal 
        Government for a change to, or approval under, the Federal 
        investigative standards, the national adjudicative guidelines, 
        continuous evaluation, or other national policy regarding 
        personnel security.

SEC. 10603. IMPROVING THE PROCESS FOR SECURITY CLEARANCES.

    (a) Reviews.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent, in coordination 
with the members of the Council, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees and make available to appropriate industry 
partners a report that includes the following:
            (1) A review of whether the information requested on the 
        Questionnaire for National Security Positions (Standard Form 
        86) and by the Federal Investigative Standards prescribed by 
        the Office of Personnel Management and the Office of the 
        Director of National Intelligence appropriately supports the 
        adjudicative guidelines under Security Executive Agent 
        Directive 4 (known as the ``National Security Adjudicative 
        Guidelines''). Such review shall include identification of 
        whether any such information currently collected is unnecessary 
        to support the adjudicative guidelines.
            (2) An assessment of whether such Questionnaire, Standards, 
        and guidelines should be revised to account for the prospect of 
        a holder of a security clearance becoming an insider threat.
            (3) Recommendations to improve the background investigation 
        process by--
                    (A) simplifying the Questionnaire for National 
                Security Positions (Standard Form 86) and increasing 
                customer support to applicants completing such 
                Questionnaire;
                    (B) using remote techniques and centralized 
                locations to support or replace field investigation 
                work;
                    (C) using secure and reliable digitization of 
                information obtained during the clearance process;
                    (D) building the capacity of the background 
                investigation labor sector; and
                    (E) replacing periodic reinvestigations with 
                continuous evaluation techniques in all appropriate 
                circumstances.
    (b) Policy, Strategy, and Implementation.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Security Executive 
Agent shall, in coordination with the members of the Council, establish 
the following:
            (1) A policy and implementation plan for the issuance of 
        interim security clearances.
            (2) A policy and implementation plan to ensure contractors 
        are treated consistently in the security clearance process 
        across agencies and departments of the United States as 
        compared to employees of such agencies and departments. Such 
        policy shall address--
                    (A) prioritization of processing security 
                clearances based on the mission the contractors will be 
                performing;
                    (B) standardization in the forms that agencies 
                issue to initiate the process for a security clearance;
                    (C) digitization of background investigation-
                related forms;
                    (D) use of the polygraph;
                    (E) the application of the adjudicative guidelines 
                under Security Executive Agent Directive 4 (known as 
                the ``National Security Adjudicative Guidelines'');
                    (F) reciprocal recognition of clearances across 
                agencies and departments of the United States, 
                regardless of status of periodic reinvestigation;
                    (G) tracking of clearance files as individuals move 
                from employment with an agency or department of the 
                United States to employment in the private sector;
                    (H) collection of timelines for movement of 
                contractors across agencies and departments;
                    (I) reporting on security incidents and job 
                performance, consistent with section 552a of title 5, 
                United States Code (commonly known as the ``Privacy Act 
                of 1974''), that may affect the ability to hold a 
                security clearance;
                    (J) any recommended changes to the Federal 
                Acquisition Regulations (FAR) necessary to ensure that 
                information affecting contractor clearances or 
                suitability is appropriately and expeditiously shared 
                between and among agencies and contractors; and
                    (K) portability of contractor security clearances 
                between or among contracts at the same agency and 
                between or among contracts at different agencies that 
                require the same level of clearance.
            (3) A strategy and implementation plan that--
                    (A) provides for periodic reinvestigations as part 
                of a security clearance determination only on an as-
                needed, risk-based basis;
                    (B) includes actions to assess the extent to which 
                automated records checks and other continuous 
                evaluation methods may be used to expedite or focus 
                reinvestigations; and
                    (C) provides an exception for certain populations 
                if the Security Executive Agent--
                            (i) determines such populations require 
                        reinvestigations at regular intervals; and
                            (ii) provides written justification to the 
                        appropriate congressional committees for any 
                        such determination.
            (4) A policy and implementation plan for agencies and 
        departments of the United States, as a part of the security 
        clearance process, to accept automated records checks generated 
        pursuant to a security clearance applicant's employment with a 
        prior employer.
            (5) A policy for the use of certain background materials on 
        individuals collected by the private sector for background 
        investigation purposes.
            (6) Uniform standards for agency continuous evaluation 
        programs to ensure quality and reciprocity in accepting 
        enrollment in a continuous vetting program as a substitute for 
        a periodic investigation for continued access to classified 
        information.

SEC. 10604. GOALS FOR PROMPTNESS OF DETERMINATIONS REGARDING SECURITY 
              CLEARANCES.

    (a) Reciprocity Defined.--In this section, the term ``reciprocity'' 
means reciprocal recognition by Federal departments and agencies of 
eligibility for access to classified information.
    (b) In General.--The Council shall reform the security clearance 
process with the objective that, by December 31, 2021, 90 percent of 
all determinations, other than determinations regarding populations 
identified under section 10603(b)(3)(C), regarding--
            (1) security clearances--
                    (A) at the secret level are issued in 30 days or 
                fewer; and
                    (B) at the top secret level are issued in 90 days 
                or fewer; and
            (2) reciprocity of security clearances at the same level 
        are recognized in 2 weeks or fewer.
    (c) Certain Reinvestigations.--The Council shall reform the 
security clearance process with the goal that by December 31, 2021, 
reinvestigation on a set periodicity is not required for more than 10 
percent of the population that holds a security clearance.
    (d) Equivalent Metrics.--
            (1) In general.--If the Council develops a set of 
        performance metrics that it certifies to the appropriate 
        congressional committees should achieve substantially 
        equivalent outcomes as those outlined in subsections (b) and 
        (c), the Council may use those metrics for purposes of 
        compliance within this provision.
            (2) Notice.--If the Council uses the authority provided by 
        paragraph (1) to use metrics as described in such paragraph, 
        the Council shall, not later than 30 days after communicating 
        such metrics to departments and agencies, notify the 
        appropriate congressional committees that it is using such 
        authority.
    (e) Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Council shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees and make available to appropriate industry partners a plan 
to carry out this section. Such plan shall include recommended interim 
milestones for the goals set forth in subsections (b) and (c) for 2019, 
2020, and 2021.

SEC. 10605. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.

    (a) In General.--Title VIII of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating sections 803 and 804 as sections 804 
        and 805, respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after section 802 the following:

``SEC. 803. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.

    ``(a) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence, or such 
other officer of the United States as the President may designate, 
shall serve as the Security Executive Agent for all departments and 
agencies of the United States.
    ``(b) Duties.--The duties of the Security Executive Agent are as 
follows:
            ``(1) To direct the oversight of investigations, 
        reinvestigations, adjudications, and, as applicable, polygraphs 
        for eligibility for access to classified information or 
        eligibility to hold a sensitive position made by any Federal 
        agency.
            ``(2) To review the national security background 
        investigation and adjudication programs of Federal agencies to 
        determine whether such programs are being implemented in 
        accordance with this section.
            ``(3) To develop and issue uniform and consistent policies 
        and procedures to ensure the effective, efficient, timely, and 
        secure completion of investigations, polygraphs, and 
        adjudications relating to determinations of eligibility for 
        access to classified information or eligibility to hold a 
        sensitive position.
            ``(4) Unless otherwise designated by law, to serve as the 
        final authority to designate a Federal agency or agencies to 
        conduct investigations of persons who are proposed for access 
        to classified information or for eligibility to hold a 
        sensitive position to ascertain whether such persons satisfy 
        the criteria for obtaining and retaining access to classified 
        information or eligibility to hold a sensitive position, as 
        applicable.
            ``(5) Unless otherwise designated by law, to serve as the 
        final authority to designate a Federal agency or agencies to 
        determine eligibility for access to classified information or 
        eligibility to hold a sensitive position in accordance with 
        Executive Order 12968 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to access 
        to classified information).
            ``(6) To ensure reciprocal recognition of eligibility for 
        access to classified information or eligibility to hold a 
        sensitive position among Federal agencies, including acting as 
        the final authority to arbitrate and resolve disputes among 
        such agencies involving the reciprocity of investigations and 
        adjudications of eligibility.
            ``(7) To execute all other duties assigned to the Security 
        Executive Agent by law.
    ``(c) Authorities.--The Security Executive Agent shall--
            ``(1) issue guidelines and instructions to the heads of 
        Federal agencies to ensure appropriate uniformity, 
        centralization, efficiency, effectiveness, timeliness, and 
        security in processes relating to determinations by such 
        agencies of eligibility for access to classified information or 
        eligibility to hold a sensitive position, including such 
        matters as investigations, polygraphs, adjudications, and 
        reciprocity;
            ``(2) have the authority to grant exceptions to, or waivers 
        of, national security investigative requirements, including 
        issuing implementing or clarifying guidance, as necessary;
            ``(3) have the authority to assign, in whole or in part, to 
        the head of any Federal agency (solely or jointly) any of the 
        duties of the Security Executive Agent described in subsection 
        (b) or the authorities described in paragraphs (1) and (2), 
        provided that the exercise of such assigned duties or 
        authorities is subject to the oversight of the Security 
        Executive Agent, including such terms and conditions (including 
        approval by the Security Executive Agent) as the Security 
        Executive Agent determines appropriate; and
            ``(4) define and set standards for continuous evaluation 
        for continued access to classified information and for 
        eligibility to hold a sensitive position.''.
    (b) Report on Recommendations for Revising Authorities.--Not later 
than 30 days after the date on which the Chairman of the Council 
submits to the appropriate congressional committees the report required 
by section 602(b)(2)(A), the Chairman shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees such recommendations as the Chairman may have 
for revising the authorities of the Security Executive Agent.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 103H(j)(4)(A) of such Act (50 
U.S.C. 3033(j)(4)(A)) is amended by striking ``in section 804'' and 
inserting ``in section 805''.
    (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the matter 
preceding section 2 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 3002) is amended by striking 
the items relating to sections 803 and 804 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 803. Security Executive Agent.
``Sec. 804. Exceptions.
``Sec. 805. Definitions.''.

SEC. 10606. REPORT ON UNIFIED, SIMPLIFIED, GOVERNMENTWIDE STANDARDS FOR 
              POSITIONS OF TRUST AND SECURITY CLEARANCES.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Security Executive Agent and the Suitability and Credentialing 
Executive Agent, in coordination with the other members of the Council, 
shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees and 
make available to appropriate industry partners a report regarding the 
advisability and the risks, benefits, and costs to the Government and 
to industry of consolidating to not more than 3 tiers for positions of 
trust and security clearances.

SEC. 10607. REPORT ON CLEARANCE IN PERSON CONCEPT.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that to reflect 
the greater mobility of the modern workforce, alternative methodologies 
merit analysis to allow greater flexibility for individuals moving in 
and out of positions that require access to classified information, 
while still preserving security.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees and make available to appropriate 
industry partners a report that describes the requirements, 
feasibility, and advisability of implementing a clearance in person 
concept described in subsection (c).
    (c) Clearance in Person Concept.--The clearance in person concept--
            (1) permits an individual who once held a security 
        clearance to maintain his or her eligibility for access to 
        classified information, networks, and facilities for up to 3 
        years after the individual's eligibility for access to 
        classified information would otherwise lapse; and
            (2) recognizes, unless otherwise directed by the Security 
        Executive Agent, an individual's security clearance and 
        background investigation as current, regardless of employment 
        status, contingent on enrollment in a continuous vetting 
        program.
    (d) Contents.--The report required under subsection (b) shall 
address--
            (1) requirements for an individual to voluntarily remain in 
        a continuous evaluation program validated by the Security 
        Executive Agent even if the individual is not in a position 
        requiring access to classified information;
            (2) appropriate safeguards for privacy;
            (3) advantages to government and industry;
            (4) the costs and savings associated with implementation;
            (5) the risks of such implementation, including security 
        and counterintelligence risks;
            (6) an appropriate funding model; and
            (7) fairness to small companies and independent 
        contractors.

SEC. 10608. BUDGET REQUEST DOCUMENTATION ON FUNDING FOR BACKGROUND 
              INVESTIGATIONS.

    (a) In General.--As part of the fiscal year 2020 budget request 
submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, the President shall include exhibits that identify the 
resources expended by each agency during the prior fiscal year for 
processing background investigations and continuous evaluation 
programs, disaggregated by tier and whether the individual was a 
Government employee or contractor.
    (b) Contents.--Each exhibit submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include details on--
            (1) the costs of background investigations or 
        reinvestigations;
            (2) the costs associated with background investigations for 
        Government or contract personnel;
            (3) costs associated with continuous evaluation initiatives 
        monitoring for each person for whom a background investigation 
        or reinvestigation was conducted, other than costs associated 
        with adjudication;
            (4) the average per person cost for each type of background 
        investigation; and
            (5) a summary of transfers and reprogrammings that were 
        executed in the previous year to support the processing of 
        security clearances.

SEC. 10609. REPORTS ON RECIPROCITY FOR SECURITY CLEARANCES INSIDE OF 
              DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.

    (a) Reciprocally Recognized Defined.--In this section, the term 
``reciprocally recognized'' means reciprocal recognition by Federal 
departments and agencies of eligibility for access to classified 
information.
    (b) Reports to Security Executive Agent.--The head of each Federal 
department or agency shall submit an annual report to the Security 
Executive Agent that--
            (1) identifies the number of individuals whose security 
        clearances take more than 2 weeks to be reciprocally recognized 
        after such individuals move to another part of such department 
        or agency; and
            (2) breaks out the information described in paragraph (1) 
        by type of clearance and the reasons for any delays.
    (c) Annual Report.--Not less frequently than once each year, the 
Security Executive Agent shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees and make available to industry partners an annual report 
that summarizes the information received pursuant to subsection (b) 
during the period covered by such report.

SEC. 10610. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORTS ON SECURITY CLEARANCES.

    Section 506H of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3104) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by adding ``and'' at 
                the end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ``; and'' 
                and inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (C);
            (2) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c);
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Intelligence Community Reports.--(1)(A) Not later than March 
1 of each year, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit a 
report to the congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee 
on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the Committee 
on Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives regarding the 
security clearances processed by each element of the intelligence 
community during the preceding fiscal year.
    ``(B) The Director shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives such portions of the report submitted under 
subparagraph (A) as the Director determines address elements of the 
intelligence community that are within the Department of Defense.
    ``(C) Each report submitted under this paragraph shall separately 
identify security clearances processed for Federal employees and 
contractor employees sponsored by each such element.
    ``(2) Each report submitted under paragraph (1)(A) shall include, 
for each element of the intelligence community for the fiscal year 
covered by the report, the following:
            ``(A) The total number of initial security clearance 
        background investigations sponsored for new applicants.
            ``(B) The total number of security clearance periodic 
        reinvestigations sponsored for existing employees.
            ``(C) The total number of initial security clearance 
        background investigations for new applicants that were 
        adjudicated with notice of a determination provided to the 
        prospective applicant, including--
                    ``(i) the total number of such adjudications that 
                were adjudicated favorably and granted access to 
                classified information; and
                    ``(ii) the total number of such adjudications that 
                were adjudicated unfavorably and resulted in a denial 
                or revocation of a security clearance.
            ``(D) The total number of security clearance periodic 
        background investigations that were adjudicated with notice of 
        a determination provided to the existing employee, including--
                    ``(i) the total number of such adjudications that 
                were adjudicated favorably; and
                    ``(ii) the total number of such adjudications that 
                were adjudicated unfavorably and resulted in a denial 
                or revocation of a security clearance.
            ``(E) The total number of pending security clearance 
        background investigations, including initial applicant 
        investigations and periodic reinvestigations, that were not 
        adjudicated as of the last day of such year and that remained 
        pending, categorized as follows:
                    ``(i) For 180 days or shorter.
                    ``(ii) For longer than 180 days, but shorter than 
                12 months.
                    ``(iii) For 12 months or longer, but shorter than 
                18 months.
                    ``(iv) For 18 months or longer, but shorter than 24 
                months.
                    ``(v) For 24 months or longer.
            ``(F) For any security clearance determinations completed 
        or pending during the year preceding the year for which the 
        report is submitted that have taken longer than 12 months to 
        complete--
                    ``(i) an explanation of the causes for the delays 
                incurred during the period covered by the report; and
                    ``(ii) the number of such delays involving a 
                polygraph requirement.
            ``(G) The percentage of security clearance investigations, 
        including initial and periodic reinvestigations, that resulted 
        in a denial or revocation of a security clearance.
            ``(H) The percentage of security clearance investigations 
        that resulted in incomplete information.
            ``(I) The percentage of security clearance investigations 
        that did not result in enough information to make a decision on 
        potentially adverse information.
    ``(3) The report required under this subsection shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.''; and
            (4) in subsection (c), as redesignated, by striking 
        ``subsection (a)(1)'' and inserting ``subsections (a)(1) and 
        (b)''.

SEC. 10611. PERIODIC REPORT ON POSITIONS IN THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY 
              THAT CAN BE CONDUCTED WITHOUT ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED 
              INFORMATION, NETWORKS, OR FACILITIES.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act 
and not less frequently than once every 5 years thereafter, the 
Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees a report that reviews the intelligence 
community for which positions can be conducted without access to 
classified information, networks, or facilities, or may only require a 
security clearance at the secret level.

SEC. 10612. INFORMATION SHARING PROGRAM FOR POSITIONS OF TRUST AND 
              SECURITY CLEARANCES.

    (a) Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent and the 
        Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent shall establish 
        and implement a program to share between and among agencies of 
        the Federal Government and industry partners of the Federal 
        Government relevant background information regarding 
        individuals applying for and currently occupying national 
        security positions and positions of trust, in order to ensure 
        the Federal Government maintains a trusted workforce.
            (2) Designation.--The program established under paragraph 
        (1) shall be known as the ``Trusted Information Provider 
        Program'' (in this section referred to as the ``Program'').
    (b) Privacy Safeguards.--The Security Executive Agent and the 
Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent shall ensure that the 
Program includes such safeguards for privacy as the Security Executive 
Agent and the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent consider 
appropriate.
    (c) Provision of Information to the Federal Government.--The 
Program shall include requirements that enable investigative service 
providers and agencies of the Federal Government to leverage certain 
pre-employment information gathered during the employment or military 
recruiting process, and other relevant security or human resources 
information obtained during employment with or for the Federal 
Government, that satisfy Federal investigative standards, while 
safeguarding personnel privacy.
    (d) Information and Records.--The information and records 
considered under the Program shall include the following:
            (1) Date and place of birth.
            (2) Citizenship or immigration and naturalization 
        information.
            (3) Education records.
            (4) Employment records.
            (5) Employment or social references.
            (6) Military service records.
            (7) State and local law enforcement checks.
            (8) Criminal history checks.
            (9) Financial records or information.
            (10) Foreign travel, relatives, or associations.
            (11) Social media checks.
            (12) Such other information or records as may be relevant 
        to obtaining or maintaining national security, suitability, 
        fitness, or credentialing eligibility.
    (e) Implementation Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent and the 
        Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent shall jointly 
        submit to the appropriate congressional committees and make 
        available to appropriate industry partners a plan for the 
        implementation of the Program.
            (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) Mechanisms that address privacy, national 
                security, suitability or fitness, credentialing, and 
                human resources or military recruitment processes.
                    (B) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Security Executive Agent 
                and the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent 
                consider appropriate to carry out or improve the 
                Program.
    (f) Plan for Pilot Program on Two-way Information Sharing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent and the 
        Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent shall jointly 
        submit to the appropriate congressional committees and make 
        available to appropriate industry partners a plan for the 
        implementation of a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
        advisability of expanding the Program to include the sharing of 
        information held by the Federal Government related to contract 
        personnel with the security office of the employers of those 
        contractor personnel.
            (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) Mechanisms that address privacy, national 
                security, suitability or fitness, credentialing, and 
                human resources or military recruitment processes.
                    (B) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Security Executive Agent 
                and the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent 
                consider appropriate to carry out or improve the pilot 
                program.
    (g) Review.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Security Executive Agent and the Suitability and 
Credentialing Executive Agent shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees and make available to appropriate industry 
partners a review of the plans submitted under subsections (e)(1) and 
(f)(1) and utility and effectiveness of the programs described in such 
plans.

SEC. 10613. REPORT ON PROTECTIONS FOR CONFIDENTIALITY OF WHISTLEBLOWER-
              RELATED COMMUNICATIONS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Security Executive Agent shall, in coordination with the 
Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report detailing the controls 
employed by the intelligence community to ensure that continuous 
vetting programs, including those involving user activity monitoring, 
protect the confidentiality of whistleblower-related communications.

                 TITLE CVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

    Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Russia and Other Foreign Powers

SEC. 10701. LIMITATION RELATING TO ESTABLISHMENT OR SUPPORT OF 
              CYBERSECURITY UNIT WITH THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

    (a) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; 
        and
            (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (b) Limitation.--
            (1) In general.--No amount may be expended by the Federal 
        Government, other than the Department of Defense, to enter into 
        or implement any bilateral agreement between the United States 
        and the Russian Federation regarding cybersecurity, including 
        the establishment or support of any cybersecurity unit, unless, 
        at least 30 days prior to the conclusion of any such agreement, 
        the Director of National Intelligence submits to the 
        appropriate congressional committees a report on such agreement 
        that includes the elements required by subsection (c).
            (2) Department of defense agreements.--Any agreement 
        between the Department of Defense and the Russian Federation 
        regarding cybersecurity shall be conducted in accordance with 
        section 1232 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328), as amended by section 
        1231 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2018 (Public Law 115-91).
    (c) Elements.--If the Director submits a report under subsection 
(b) with respect to an agreement, such report shall include a 
description of each of the following:
            (1) The purpose of the agreement.
            (2) The nature of any intelligence to be shared pursuant to 
        the agreement.
            (3) The expected value to national security resulting from 
        the implementation of the agreement.
            (4) Such counterintelligence concerns associated with the 
        agreement as the Director may have and such measures as the 
        Director expects to be taken to mitigate such concerns.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--This section shall not be construed to 
affect any existing authority of the Director of National Intelligence, 
the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, or another head of an 
element of the intelligence community, to share or receive foreign 
intelligence on a case-by-case basis.

SEC. 10702. REPORT ON RETURNING RUSSIAN COMPOUNDS.

    (a) Covered Compounds Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
compounds'' means the real property in New York, the real property in 
Maryland, and the real property in San Francisco, California, that were 
under the control of the Government of Russia in 2016 and were removed 
from such control in response to various transgressions by the 
Government of Russia, including the interference by the Government of 
Russia in the 2016 election in the United States.
    (b) Requirement for Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence 
shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives (only with respect to 
the unclassified report), a report on the intelligence risks of 
returning the covered compounds to Russian control.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by this section shall be 
submitted in classified and unclassified forms.

SEC. 10703. ASSESSMENT OF THREAT FINANCE RELATING TO RUSSIA.

    (a) Threat Finance Defined.--In this section, the term ``threat 
finance'' means--
            (1) the financing of cyber operations, global influence 
        campaigns, intelligence service activities, proliferation, 
        terrorism, or transnational crime and drug organizations;
            (2) the methods and entities used to spend, store, move, 
        raise, conceal, or launder money or value, on behalf of threat 
        actors;
            (3) sanctions evasion; and
            (4) other forms of threat finance activity domestically or 
        internationally, as defined by the President.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for 
Intelligence and Analysis, shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees a report containing an assessment of Russian 
threat finance. The assessment shall be based on intelligence from all 
sources, including from the Office of Terrorism and Financial 
Intelligence of the Department of the Treasury.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
each of the following:
            (1) A summary of leading examples from the 3-year period 
        preceding the date of the submittal of the report of threat 
        finance activities conducted by, for the benefit of, or at the 
        behest of--
                    (A) officials of the Government of Russia;
                    (B) persons subject to sanctions under any 
                provision of law imposing sanctions with respect to 
                Russia;
                    (C) Russian nationals subject to sanctions under 
                any other provision of law; or
                    (D) Russian oligarchs or organized criminals.
            (2) An assessment with respect to any trends or patterns in 
        threat finance activities relating to Russia, including common 
        methods of conducting such activities and global nodes of money 
        laundering used by Russian threat actors described in paragraph 
        (1) and associated entities.
            (3) An assessment of any connections between Russian 
        individuals involved in money laundering and the Government of 
        Russia.
            (4) A summary of engagement and coordination with 
        international partners on threat finance relating to Russia, 
        especially in Europe, including examples of such engagement and 
        coordination.
            (5) An identification of any resource and collection gaps.
            (6) An identification of--
                    (A) entry points of money laundering by Russian and 
                associated entities into the United States;
                    (B) any vulnerabilities within the United States 
                legal and financial system, including specific sectors, 
                which have been or could be exploited in connection 
                with Russian threat finance activities; and
                    (C) the counterintelligence threat posed by Russian 
                money laundering and other forms of threat finance, as 
                well as the threat to the United States financial 
                system and United States efforts to enforce sanctions 
                and combat organized crime.
            (7) Any other matters the Director determines appropriate.
    (d) Form of Report.--The report required under subsection (b) may 
be submitted in classified form.

SEC. 10704. NOTIFICATION OF AN ACTIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGN.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate 
                and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives; and
                    (C) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives.
            (2) Congressional leadership.--The term ``congressional 
        leadership'' includes the following:
                    (A) The majority leader of the Senate.
                    (B) The minority leader of the Senate.
                    (C) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.
                    (D) The minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives.
    (b) Requirement for Notification.--The Director of National 
Intelligence, in cooperation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation and the head of any other relevant agency, shall notify 
the congressional leadership and the Chairman and Vice Chairman or 
Ranking Member of each of the appropriate congressional committees, and 
of other relevant committees of jurisdiction, each time the Director of 
National Intelligence determines there is credible information that a 
foreign power has, is, or will attempt to employ a covert influence or 
active measures campaign with regard to the modernization, employment, 
doctrine, or force posture of the nuclear deterrent or missile defense.
    (c) Content of Notification.--Each notification required by 
subsection (b) shall include information concerning actions taken by 
the United States to expose or halt an attempt referred to in 
subsection (b).

SEC. 10705. NOTIFICATION OF TRAVEL BY ACCREDITED DIPLOMATIC AND 
              CONSULAR PERSONNEL OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION IN THE 
              UNITED STATES.

    In carrying out the advance notification requirements set out in 
section 502 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
(division N of Public Law 115-31; 131 Stat. 825; 22 U.S.C. 254a note), 
the Secretary of State shall--
            (1) ensure that the Russian Federation provides 
        notification to the Secretary of State at least 2 business days 
        in advance of all travel that is subject to such requirements 
        by accredited diplomatic and consular personnel of the Russian 
        Federation in the United States, and take necessary action to 
        secure full compliance by Russian personnel and address any 
        noncompliance; and
            (2) provide notice of travel described in paragraph (1) to 
        the Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation within 1 hour of receiving 
        notice of such travel.

SEC. 10706. REPORT ON OUTREACH STRATEGY ADDRESSING THREATS FROM UNITED 
              STATES ADVERSARIES TO THE UNITED STATES TECHNOLOGY 
              SECTOR.

    (a) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
            (3) the Committee on Armed Services, Committee on Homeland 
        Security, and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the 
        House of Representatives.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report detailing 
outreach by the intelligence community and the Defense Intelligence 
Enterprise to United States industrial, commercial, scientific, 
technical, and academic communities on matters relating to the efforts 
of adversaries of the United States to acquire critical United States 
technology, intellectual property, and research and development 
information.
    (c) Contents.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A review of the current outreach efforts of the 
        intelligence community and the Defense Intelligence Enterprise 
        described in subsection (b), including the type of information 
        conveyed in the outreach.
            (2) A determination of the appropriate element of the 
        intelligence community to lead such outreach efforts.
            (3) An assessment of potential methods for improving the 
        effectiveness of such outreach, including an assessment of the 
        following:
                    (A) Those critical technologies, infrastructure, or 
                related supply chains that are at risk from the efforts 
                of adversaries described in subsection (b).
                    (B) The necessity and advisability of granting 
                security clearances to company or community leadership, 
                when necessary and appropriate, to allow for tailored 
                classified briefings on specific targeted threats.
                    (C) The advisability of partnering with entities of 
                the Federal Government that are not elements of the 
                intelligence community and relevant regulatory and 
                industry groups described in subsection (b), to convey 
                key messages across sectors targeted by United States 
                adversaries.
                    (D) Strategies to assist affected elements of the 
                communities described in subparagraph (C) in 
                mitigating, deterring, and protecting against the broad 
                range of threats from the efforts of adversaries 
                described in subsection (b), with focus on producing 
                information that enables private entities to justify 
                business decisions related to national security 
                concerns.
                    (E) The advisability of the establishment of a 
                United States Government-wide task force to coordinate 
                outreach and activities to combat the threats from 
                efforts of adversaries described in subsection (b).
                    (F) Such other matters as the Director of National 
                Intelligence may consider necessary.
    (d) Consultation Encouraged.--In preparing the report required by 
subsection (b), the Director is encouraged to consult with other 
government agencies, think tanks, academia, representatives of the 
financial industry, or such other entities as the Director considers 
appropriate.
    (e) Form.--The report required by subsection (b) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex as necessary.

SEC. 10707. REPORT ON IRANIAN SUPPORT OF PROXY FORCES IN SYRIA AND 
              LEBANON.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on 
                Intelligence of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee 
                on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Arms or related material.--The term ``arms or related 
        material'' means--
                    (A) nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological 
                weapons or materials or components of such weapons;
                    (B) ballistic or cruise missile weapons or 
                materials or components of such weapons;
                    (C) destabilizing numbers and types of advanced 
                conventional weapons;
                    (D) defense articles or defense services, as those 
                terms are defined in paragraphs (3) and (4), 
                respectively, of section 47 of the Arms Export Control 
                Act (22 U.S.C. 2794);
                    (E) defense information, as that term is defined in 
                section 644 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
                U.S.C. 2403); or
                    (F) items designated by the President for purposes 
                of the United States Munitions List under section 
                38(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 
                2778(a)(1)).
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on Iranian 
support of proxy forces in Syria and Lebanon and the threat posed to 
Israel, other United States regional allies, and other specified 
interests of the United States as a result of such support.
    (c) Matters for Inclusion.--The report required under subsection 
(b) shall include information relating to the following matters with 
respect to both the strategic and tactical implications for the United 
States and its allies:
            (1) A description of arms or related materiel transferred 
        by Iran to Hizballah since March 2011, including the number of 
        such arms or related materiel and whether such transfer was by 
        land, sea, or air, as well as financial and additional 
        technological capabilities transferred by Iran to Hizballah.
            (2) A description of Iranian and Iranian-controlled 
        personnel, including Hizballah, Shiite militias, and Iran's 
        Revolutionary Guard Corps forces, operating within Syria, 
        including the number and geographic distribution of such 
        personnel operating within 30 kilometers of the Israeli borders 
        with Syria and Lebanon.
            (3) An assessment of Hizballah's operational lessons 
        learned based on its recent experiences in Syria.
            (4) A description of any rocket-producing facilities in 
        Lebanon for nonstate actors, including whether such facilities 
        were assessed to be built at the direction of Hizballah 
        leadership, Iranian leadership, or in consultation between 
        Iranian leadership and Hizballah leadership.
            (5) An analysis of the foreign and domestic supply chains 
        that significantly facilitate, support, or otherwise aid 
        Hizballah's acquisition or development of missile production 
        facilities, including the geographic distribution of such 
        foreign and domestic supply chains.
            (6) An assessment of the provision of goods, services, or 
        technology transferred by Iran or its affiliates to Hizballah 
        to indigenously manufacture or otherwise produce missiles.
            (7) An identification of foreign persons that are based on 
        credible information, facilitating the transfer of significant 
        financial support or arms or related materiel to Hizballah.
            (8) A description of the threat posed to Israel and other 
        United States allies in the Middle East by the transfer of arms 
        or related material or other support offered to Hizballah and 
        other proxies from Iran.
    (d) Form of Report.--The report required under subsection (b) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 10708. ANNUAL REPORT ON IRANIAN EXPENDITURES SUPPORTING FOREIGN 
              MILITARY AND TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Annual Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once each 
year thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to 
Congress a report describing Iranian expenditures in the previous 
calendar year on military and terrorist activities outside the country, 
including each of the following:
            (1) The amount spent in such calendar year on activities by 
        the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, including activities 
        providing support for--
                    (A) Hizballah;
                    (B) Houthi rebels in Yemen;
                    (C) Hamas;
                    (D) proxy forces in Iraq and Syria; or
                    (E) any other entity or country the Director 
                determines to be relevant.
            (2) The amount spent in such calendar year for ballistic 
        missile research and testing or other activities that the 
        Director determines are destabilizing to the Middle East 
        region.
    (b) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 10709. EXPANSION OF SCOPE OF COMMITTEE TO COUNTER ACTIVE MEASURES 
              AND REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT OF FOREIGN MALIGN INFLUENCE 
              CENTER.

    (a) Scope of Committee to Counter Active Measures.--
            (1) In general.--Section 501 of the Intelligence 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 115-31; 50 
        U.S.C. 3001 note) is amended--
                    (A) in subsections (a) through (h)--
                            (i) by inserting ``, the People's Republic 
                        of China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the 
                        Democratic People's Republic of Korea, or other 
                        nation state'' after ``Russian Federation'' 
                        each place it appears; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, China, Iran, North 
                        Korea, or other nation state'' after ``Russia'' 
                        each place it appears; and
                    (B) in the section heading, by inserting ``, the 
                people's republic of china, the islamic republic of 
                iran, the democratic people's republic of korea, or 
                other nation state'' after ``russian federation''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents in section 
        1(b) of such Act is amended by striking the item relating to 
        section 501 and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 501. Committee to counter active measures by the Russian 
                            Federation, the People's Republic of China, 
                            the Islamic Republic of Iran, the 
                            Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and 
                            other nation states to exert covert 
                            influence over peoples and governments.''.
    (b) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence, in coordination with such elements of the 
        intelligence community as the Director considers relevant, 
        shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
        report on the feasibility and advisability of establishing a 
        center, to be known as the ``Foreign Malign Influence Response 
        Center'', that--
                    (A) is comprised of analysts from all appropriate 
                elements of the intelligence community, including 
                elements with related diplomatic and law enforcement 
                functions;
                    (B) has access to all intelligence and other 
                reporting acquired by the United States Government on 
                foreign efforts to influence, through overt and covert 
                malign activities, United States political processes 
                and elections;
                    (C) provides comprehensive assessment, and 
                indications and warning, of such activities; and
                    (D) provides for enhanced dissemination of such 
                assessment to United States policy makers.
            (2) Contents.--The Report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A discussion of the desirability of the 
                establishment of such center and any barriers to such 
                establishment.
                    (B) Such recommendations and other matters as the 
                Director considers appropriate.

                          Subtitle B--Reports

SEC. 10711. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO INSPECTOR GENERAL STUDY.

    Section 11001(d) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Audit'' and 
        inserting ``Review'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``audit'' and inserting 
        ``review''; and
            (3) in paragraph (2), by striking ``audit'' and inserting 
        ``review''.

SEC. 10712. REPORTS ON AUTHORITIES OF THE CHIEF INTELLIGENCE OFFICER OF 
              THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Homeland security intelligence enterprise.--The term 
        ``Homeland Security Intelligence Enterprise'' has the meaning 
        given such term in Department of Homeland Security Instruction 
        Number 264-01-001, or successor authority.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
consultation with the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
Intelligence and Analysis, shall submit to the appropriate committees 
of Congress a report on the authorities of the Under Secretary.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
each of the following:
            (1) An analysis of whether the Under Secretary has the 
        legal and policy authority necessary to organize and lead the 
        Homeland Security Intelligence Enterprise, with respect to 
        intelligence, and, if not, a description of--
                    (A) the obstacles to exercising the authorities of 
                the Chief Intelligence Officer of the Department and 
                the Homeland Security Intelligence Council, of which 
                the Chief Intelligence Officer is the chair; and
                    (B) the legal and policy changes necessary to 
                effectively coordinate, organize, and lead intelligence 
                activities of the Department of Homeland Security.
            (2) A description of the actions that the Secretary has 
        taken to address the inability of the Under Secretary to 
        require components of the Department, other than the Office of 
        Intelligence and Analysis of the Department to--
                    (A) coordinate intelligence programs; and
                    (B) integrate and standardize intelligence products 
                produced by such other components.

SEC. 10713. REPORT ON CYBER EXCHANGE PROGRAM.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report on the potential 
establishment of a fully voluntary exchange program between elements of 
the intelligence community and private technology companies under 
which--
            (1) an employee of an element of the intelligence community 
        with demonstrated expertise and work experience in 
        cybersecurity or related disciplines may elect to be 
        temporarily detailed to a private technology company that has 
        elected to receive the detailee; and
            (2) an employee of a private technology company with 
        demonstrated expertise and work experience in cybersecurity or 
        related disciplines may elect to be temporarily detailed to an 
        element of the intelligence community that has elected to 
        receive the detailee.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
            (1) An assessment of the feasibility of establishing the 
        exchange program described in such subsection.
            (2) Identification of any challenges in establishing the 
        exchange program.
            (3) An evaluation of the benefits to the intelligence 
        community that would result from the exchange program.

SEC. 10714. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS.

    (a) Review of Whistleblower Matters.--The Inspector General of the 
Intelligence Community, in consultation with the inspectors general for 
the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, the 
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, the Defense Intelligence 
Agency, and the National Reconnaissance Office, shall conduct a review 
of the authorities, policies, investigatory standards, and other 
practices and procedures relating to intelligence community 
whistleblower matters, with respect to such inspectors general.
    (b) Objective of Review.--The objective of the review required 
under subsection (a) is to identify any discrepancies, inconsistencies, 
or other issues, which frustrate the timely and effective reporting of 
intelligence community whistleblower matters to appropriate inspectors 
general and to the congressional intelligence committees, and the fair 
and expeditious investigation and resolution of such matters.
    (c) Conduct of Review.--The Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community shall take such measures as the Inspector General determines 
necessary in order to ensure that the review required by subsection (a) 
is conducted in an independent and objective fashion.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
written report containing the results of the review required under 
subsection (a), along with recommendations to improve the timely and 
effective reporting of intelligence community whistleblower matters to 
inspectors general and to the congressional intelligence committees and 
the fair and expeditious investigation and resolution of such matters.

SEC. 10715. REPORT ON ROLE OF DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE WITH 
              RESPECT TO CERTAIN FOREIGN INVESTMENTS.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the heads of the elements of the intelligence 
community determined appropriate by the Director, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report on the role of the 
Director in preparing analytic materials in connection with the 
evaluation by the Federal Government of national security risks 
associated with potential foreign investments into the United States.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) a description of the current process for the provision 
        of the analytic materials described in subsection (a);
            (2) an identification of the most significant benefits and 
        drawbacks of such process with respect to the role of the 
        Director, including the sufficiency of resources and personnel 
        to prepare such materials; and
            (3) recommendations to improve such process.

SEC. 10716. REPORT ON SURVEILLANCE BY FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST 
              UNITED STATES TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS.

    (a) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
            (1) The congressional intelligence committees.
            (2) The Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
            (3) The Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall, in 
coordination with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the 
Director of the National Security Agency, the Director of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, submit 
to the appropriate congressional committees a report describing--
            (1) any attempts known to the intelligence community by 
        foreign governments to exploit cybersecurity vulnerabilities in 
        United States telecommunications networks (including Signaling 
        System No. 7) to target for surveillance United States persons, 
        including employees of the Federal Government; and
            (2) any actions, as of the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, taken by the intelligence community to protect agencies 
        and personnel of the United States Government from surveillance 
        conducted by foreign governments.

SEC. 10717. BIENNIAL REPORT ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT RISKS.

    (a) Intelligence Community Interagency Working Group.--
            (1) Requirement to establish.--The Director of National 
        Intelligence shall establish an intelligence community 
        interagency working group to prepare the biennial reports 
        required by subsection (b).
            (2) Chairperson.--The Director of National Intelligence 
        shall serve as the chairperson of such interagency working 
        group.
            (3) Membership.--Such interagency working group shall be 
        composed of representatives of each element of the intelligence 
        community that the Director of National Intelligence determines 
        appropriate.
    (b) Biennial Report on Foreign Investment Risks.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than 
        once every 2 years thereafter, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
        committees, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Homeland Security 
        of the House of Representatives a report on foreign investment 
        risks prepared by the interagency working group established 
        under subsection (a).
            (2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include identification, analysis, and explanation of the 
        following:
                    (A) Any current or projected major threats to the 
                national security of the United States with respect to 
                foreign investment.
                    (B) Any strategy used by a foreign country that 
                such interagency working group has identified to be a 
                country of special concern to use foreign investment to 
                target the acquisition of critical technologies, 
                critical materials, or critical infrastructure.
                    (C) Any economic espionage efforts directed at the 
                United States by a foreign country, particularly such a 
                country of special concern.

SEC. 10718. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENT ON TRAVEL OF 
              FOREIGN DIPLOMATS.

    Section 502(d)(2) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 115-31) is amended by striking ``the number'' and 
inserting ``a best estimate''.

SEC. 10719. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVESTIGATIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED 
              DISCLOSURES OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.

    (a) In General.--Title XI of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3231 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:

``SEC. 1105. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVESTIGATIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED 
              DISCLOSURES OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered official.--The term `covered official' 
        means--
                    ``(A) the heads of each element of the intelligence 
                community; and
                    ``(B) the inspectors general with oversight 
                responsibility for an element of the intelligence 
                community.
            ``(2) Investigation.--The term `investigation' means any 
        inquiry, whether formal or informal, into the existence of an 
        unauthorized public disclosure of classified information.
            ``(3) Unauthorized disclosure of classified information.--
        The term `unauthorized disclosure of classified information' 
        means any unauthorized disclosure of classified information to 
        any recipient.
            ``(4) Unauthorized public disclosure of classified 
        information.--The term `unauthorized public disclosure of 
        classified information' means the unauthorized disclosure of 
        classified information to a journalist or media organization.
    ``(b) Intelligence Community Reporting.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not less frequently than once every 6 
        months, each covered official shall submit to the congressional 
        intelligence committees a report on investigations of 
        unauthorized public disclosures of classified information.
            ``(2) Elements.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include, with respect to the preceding 6-month period, 
        the following:
                    ``(A) The number of investigations opened by the 
                covered official regarding an unauthorized public 
                disclosure of classified information.
                    ``(B) The number of investigations completed by the 
                covered official regarding an unauthorized public 
                disclosure of classified information.
                    ``(C) Of the number of such completed 
                investigations identified under subparagraph (B), the 
                number referred to the Attorney General for criminal 
                investigation.
    ``(c) Department of Justice Reporting.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not less frequently than once every 6 
        months, the Assistant Attorney General for National Security of 
        the Department of Justice, in consultation with the Director of 
        the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall submit to the 
        congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on the 
        Judiciary of the Senate, and the Committee on the Judiciary of 
        the House of Representatives a report on the status of each 
        referral made to the Department of Justice from any element of 
        the intelligence community regarding an unauthorized disclosure 
        of classified information made during the most recent 365-day 
        period or any referral that has not yet been closed, regardless 
        of the date the referral was made.
            ``(2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include, for each referral covered by the report, at a 
        minimum, the following:
                    ``(A) The date the referral was received.
                    ``(B) A statement indicating whether the alleged 
                unauthorized disclosure described in the referral was 
                substantiated by the Department of Justice.
                    ``(C) A statement indicating the highest level of 
                classification of the information that was revealed in 
                the unauthorized disclosure.
                    ``(D) A statement indicating whether an open 
                criminal investigation related to the referral is 
                active.
                    ``(E) A statement indicating whether any criminal 
                charges have been filed related to the referral.
                    ``(F) A statement indicating whether the Department 
                of Justice has been able to attribute the unauthorized 
                disclosure to a particular entity or individual.
    ``(d) Form of Reports.--Each report submitted under this section 
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may have a classified 
annex.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the first section 
of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 1104 the following new item:

``Sec. 1105. Semiannual reports on investigations of unauthorized 
                            disclosures of classified information.''.

SEC. 10720. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF DESIGNATION OF COVERED 
              INTELLIGENCE OFFICER AS PERSONA NON GRATA.

    (a) Covered Intelligence Officer Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``covered intelligence officer'' means--
            (1) a United States intelligence officer serving in a post 
        in a foreign country; or
            (2) a known or suspected foreign intelligence officer 
        serving in a United States post.
    (b) Requirement for Reports.--Not later than 72 hours after a 
covered intelligence officer is designated as a persona non grata, the 
Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the Secretary 
of State, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, 
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a notification of that 
designation. Each such notification shall include--
            (1) the date of the designation;
            (2) the basis for the designation; and
            (3) a justification for the expulsion.

SEC. 10721. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN 
              VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES PROCESS OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Vulnerabilities equities policy and process document.--
        The term ``Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process 
        document'' means the executive branch document entitled 
        ``Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process'' dated November 
        15, 2017.
            (2) Vulnerabilities equities process.--The term 
        ``Vulnerabilities Equities Process'' means the interagency 
        review of vulnerabilities, pursuant to the Vulnerabilities 
        Equities Policy and Process document or any successor document.
            (3) Vulnerability.--The term ``vulnerability'' means a 
        weakness in an information system or its components (for 
        example, system security procedures, hardware design, and 
        internal controls) that could be exploited or could affect 
        confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information.
    (b) Reports on Process and Criteria Under Vulnerabilities Equities 
Policy and Process.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
        committees a written report describing--
                    (A) with respect to each element of the 
                intelligence community--
                            (i) the title of the official or officials 
                        responsible for determining whether, pursuant 
                        to criteria contained in the Vulnerabilities 
                        Equities Policy and Process document or any 
                        successor document, a vulnerability must be 
                        submitted for review under the Vulnerabilities 
                        Equities Process; and
                            (ii) the process used by such element to 
                        make such determination; and
                    (B) the roles or responsibilities of that element 
                during a review of a vulnerability submitted to the 
                Vulnerabilities Equities Process.
            (2) Changes to process or criteria.--Not later than 30 days 
        after any significant change is made to the process and 
        criteria used by any element of the intelligence community for 
        determining whether to submit a vulnerability for review under 
        the Vulnerabilities Equities Process, such element shall submit 
        to the congressional intelligence committees a report 
        describing such change.
            (3) Form of reports.--Each report submitted under this 
        subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may 
        include a classified annex.
    (c) Annual Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not less frequently than once each 
        calendar year, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
        submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
        classified report containing, with respect to the previous 
        year--
                    (A) the number of vulnerabilities submitted for 
                review under the Vulnerabilities Equities Process;
                    (B) the number of vulnerabilities described in 
                subparagraph (A) disclosed to each vendor responsible 
                for correcting the vulnerability, or to the public, 
                pursuant to the Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
                    (C) the aggregate number, by category, of the 
                vulnerabilities excluded from review under the 
                Vulnerabilities Equities Process, as described in 
                paragraph 5.4 of the Vulnerabilities Equities Policy 
                and Process document.
            (2) Unclassified information.--Each report submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall include an unclassified appendix that 
        contains--
                    (A) the aggregate number of vulnerabilities 
                disclosed to vendors or the public pursuant to the 
                Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
                    (B) the aggregate number of vulnerabilities 
                disclosed to vendors or the public pursuant to the 
                Vulnerabilities Equities Process known to have been 
                patched.
            (3) Non-duplication.--The Director of National Intelligence 
        may forgo submission of an annual report required under this 
        subsection for a calendar year, if the Director notifies the 
        intelligence committees in writing that, with respect to the 
        same calendar year, an annual report required by paragraph 4.3 
        of the Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process document 
        already has been submitted to Congress, and such annual report 
        contains the information that would otherwise be required to be 
        included in an annual report under this subsection.

SEC. 10722. INSPECTORS GENERAL REPORTS ON CLASSIFICATION.

    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than October 1, 2019, each 
Inspector General listed in subsection (b) shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report that includes, with 
respect to the department or agency of the Inspector General, analyses 
of the following:
            (1) The accuracy of the application of classification and 
        handling markers on a representative sample of finished 
        reports, including such reports that are compartmented.
            (2) Compliance with declassification procedures.
            (3) The effectiveness of processes for identifying topics 
        of public or historical importance that merit prioritization 
        for a declassification review.
    (b) Inspectors General Listed.--The Inspectors General listed in 
this subsection are as follows:
            (1) The Inspector General of the Intelligence Community.
            (2) The Inspector General of the Central Intelligence 
        Agency.
            (3) The Inspector General of the National Security Agency.
            (4) The Inspector General of the Defense Intelligence 
        Agency.
            (5) The Inspector General of the National Reconnaissance 
        Office.
            (6) The Inspector General of the National Geospatial-
        Intelligence Agency.

SEC. 10723. REPORTS ON GLOBAL WATER INSECURITY AND NATIONAL SECURITY 
              IMPLICATIONS AND BRIEFING ON EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASE 
              AND PANDEMICS.

    (a) Reports on Global Water Insecurity and National Security 
Implications.--
            (1) Reports required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than 
        once every 5 years thereafter, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
        committees a report on the implications of water insecurity on 
        the national security interest of the United States, including 
        consideration of social, economic, agricultural, and 
        environmental factors.
            (2) Assessment scope and focus.--Each report submitted 
        under paragraph (1) shall include an assessment of water 
        insecurity described in such subsection with a global scope, 
        but focus on areas of the world--
                    (A) of strategic, economic, or humanitarian 
                interest to the United States--
                            (i) that are, as of the date of the report, 
                        at the greatest risk of instability, conflict, 
                        human insecurity, or mass displacement; or
                            (ii) where challenges relating to water 
                        insecurity are likely to emerge and become 
                        significant during the 5-year or the 20-year 
                        period beginning on the date of the report; and
                    (B) where challenges relating to water insecurity 
                are likely to imperil the national security interests 
                of the United States or allies of the United States.
            (3) Consultation.--In researching a report required by 
        paragraph (1), the Director shall consult with--
                    (A) such stakeholders within the intelligence 
                community, the Department of Defense, and the 
                Department of State as the Director considers 
                appropriate; and
                    (B) such additional Federal agencies and persons in 
                the private sector as the Director considers 
                appropriate.
            (4) Form.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (b) Briefing on Emerging Infectious Disease and Pandemics.--
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations 
                of the House of Representatives; and
                    (C) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate.
            (2) Briefing.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall provide to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a briefing on the anticipated geopolitical effects 
        of emerging infectious disease (including deliberate, 
        accidental, and naturally occurring infectious disease threats) 
        and pandemics, and their implications on the national security 
        of the United States.
            (3) Content.--The briefing under paragraph (2) shall 
        include an assessment of--
                    (A) the economic, social, political, and security 
                risks, costs, and impacts of emerging infectious 
                diseases on the United States and the international 
                political and economic system;
                    (B) the economic, social, political, and security 
                risks, costs, and impacts of a major transnational 
                pandemic on the United States and the international 
                political and economic system; and
                    (C) contributing trends and factors to the matters 
                assessed under subparagraphs (A) and (B).
            (4) Examination of response capacity.--In examining the 
        risks, costs, and impacts of emerging infectious disease and a 
        possible transnational pandemic under paragraph (3), the 
        Director of National Intelligence shall also examine in the 
        briefing under paragraph (2) the response capacity within 
        affected countries and the international system. In considering 
        response capacity, the Director shall include--
                    (A) the ability of affected nations to effectively 
                detect and manage emerging infectious diseases and a 
                possible transnational pandemic;
                    (B) the role and capacity of international 
                organizations and nongovernmental organizations to 
                respond to emerging infectious disease and a possible 
                pandemic, and their ability to coordinate with affected 
                and donor nations; and
                    (C) the effectiveness of current international 
                frameworks, agreements, and health systems to respond 
                to emerging infectious diseases and a possible 
                transnational pandemic.
            (5) Form.--The briefing under paragraph (2) may be 
        classified.

SEC. 10724. ANNUAL REPORT ON MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN 
              ELEMENTS OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AND OTHER ENTITIES OF 
              THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT REGARDING SIGNIFICANT 
              OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES OR POLICY.

    Section 311 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2017 (50 U.S.C. 3313) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
            (2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--Each year, concurrent with the annual budget 
request submitted by the President to Congress under section 1105 of 
title 31, United States Code, each head of an element of the 
intelligence community shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees a report that lists each memorandum of understanding or 
other agreement regarding significant operational activities or policy 
entered into during the most recently completed fiscal year between or 
among such element and any other entity of the United States 
Government.
    ``(b) Provision of Documents.--Each head of an element of an 
intelligence community who receives a request from the Select Committee 
on Intelligence of the Senate or the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the House of Representatives for a copy of a memorandum 
of understanding or other document listed in a report submitted by the 
head under subsection (a) shall submit to such committee the requested 
copy as soon as practicable after receiving such request.''.

SEC. 10725. STUDY ON THE FEASIBILITY OF ENCRYPTING UNCLASSIFIED 
              WIRELINE AND WIRELESS TELEPHONE CALLS.

    (a) Study Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
complete a study on the feasibility of encrypting unclassified wireline 
and wireless telephone calls between personnel in the intelligence 
community.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which the 
Director completes the study required by subsection (a), the Director 
shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on 
the Director's findings with respect to such study.

SEC. 10726. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR ANNUAL REPORT ON HIRING AND 
              RETENTION OF MINORITY EMPLOYEES.

    (a) Expansion of Period of Report.--Subsection (a) of section 114 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3050) is amended by 
inserting ``and the preceding 5 fiscal years'' after ``fiscal year''.
    (b) Clarification on Disaggregation of Data.--Subsection (b) of 
such section is amended, in the matter before paragraph (1), by 
striking ``disaggregated data by category of covered person from each 
element of the intelligence community'' and inserting ``data, 
disaggregated by category of covered person and by element of the 
intelligence community,''.

SEC. 10727. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY LOAN REPAYMENT AND 
              RELATED PROGRAMS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) there should be established, through the issuing of an 
        Intelligence Community Directive or otherwise, an intelligence 
        community-wide program for student loan repayment, student loan 
        forgiveness, financial counseling, and related matters, for 
        employees of the intelligence community;
            (2) creating such a program would enhance the ability of 
        the elements of the intelligence community to recruit, hire, 
        and retain highly qualified personnel, including with respect 
        to mission-critical and hard-to-fill positions;
            (3) such a program, including with respect to eligibility 
        requirements, should be designed so as to maximize the ability 
        of the elements of the intelligence community to recruit, hire, 
        and retain highly qualified personnel, including with respect 
        to mission-critical and hard-to-fill positions; and
            (4) to the extent possible, such a program should be 
        uniform throughout the intelligence community and publicly 
        promoted by each element of the intelligence community to both 
        current employees of the element as well as to prospective 
        employees of the element.
    (b) Report on Potential Intelligence Community-wide Program.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence, in cooperation with the heads of the elements of 
        the intelligence community and the heads of any other 
        appropriate department or agency of the Federal Government, 
        shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
        report on potentially establishing and carrying out an 
        intelligence community-wide program for student loan repayment, 
        student loan forgiveness, financial counseling, and related 
        matters, as described in subsection (a).
            (2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        include, at a minimum, the following:
                    (A) A description of the financial resources that 
                the elements of the intelligence community would 
                require to establish and initially carry out the 
                program specified in paragraph (1).
                    (B) A description of the practical steps to 
                establish and carry out such a program.
                    (C) The identification of any legislative action 
                the Director determines necessary to establish and 
                carry out such a program.
    (c) Annual Reports on Established Programs.--
            (1) Covered programs defined.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``covered programs'' means any loan repayment program, loan 
        forgiveness program, financial counseling program, or similar 
        program, established pursuant to title X of the National 
        Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3191 et seq.) or any other 
        provision of law that may be administered or used by an element 
        of the intelligence community.
            (2) Annual reports required.--Not less frequently than once 
        each year, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit 
        to the congressional intelligence committees a report on the 
        covered programs. Each such report shall include, with respect 
        to the period covered by the report, the following:
                    (A) The number of personnel from each element of 
                the intelligence community who used each covered 
                program.
                    (B) The total amount of funds each element expended 
                for each such program.
                    (C) A description of the efforts made by each 
                element to promote each covered program pursuant to 
                both the personnel of the element of the intelligence 
                community and to prospective personnel.

SEC. 10728. REPEAL OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Correcting Long-standing Material Weaknesses.--Section 368 of 
the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
110-259; 50 U.S.C. 3051 note) is hereby repealed.
    (b) Interagency Threat Assessment and Coordination Group.--Section 
210D of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124k) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (d) through (i) as 
        subsections (c) through (h), respectively; and
            (3) in subsection (c), as so redesignated--
                    (A) in paragraph (8), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (9).
    (c) Inspector General Report.--Section 8H of the Inspector General 
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (g); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections 
        (g) and (h), respectively.

SEC. 10729. INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORT ON 
              SENIOR EXECUTIVES OF THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF 
              NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.

    (a) Senior Executive Service Position Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``Senior Executive Service position'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 3132(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code, and 
includes any position above the GS-15, step 10, level of the General 
Schedule under section 5332 of such title.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on the 
number of Senior Executive Service positions in the Office of the 
Director of National Intelligence.
    (c) Matters Included.--The report under subsection (b) shall 
include the following:
            (1) The number of required Senior Executive Service 
        positions for the Office of the Director of National 
        Intelligence.
            (2) Whether such requirements are reasonably based on the 
        mission of the Office.
            (3) A discussion of how the number of the Senior Executive 
        Service positions in the Office compare to the number of senior 
        positions at comparable organizations.
    (d) Cooperation.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
provide to the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community any 
information requested by the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community that is necessary to carry out this section by not later than 
14 calendar days after the date on which the Inspector General of the 
Intelligence Community makes such request.

SEC. 10730. BRIEFING ON FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION OFFERING 
              PERMANENT RESIDENCE TO SOURCES AND COOPERATORS.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall provide to 
the congressional intelligence committees a briefing on the ability of 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation to offer, as an inducement to 
assisting the Bureau, permanent residence within the United States to 
foreign individuals who are sources or cooperators in 
counterintelligence or other national security-related investigations. 
The briefing shall address the following:
            (1) The extent to which the Bureau may make such offers, 
        whether independently or in conjunction with other agencies and 
        departments of the United States Government, including a 
        discussion of the authorities provided by section 101(a)(15)(S) 
        of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
        1101(a)(15)(S)), section 7 of the Central Intelligence Agency 
        Act (50 U.S.C. 3508), and any other provision of law under 
        which the Bureau may make such offers.
            (2) An overview of the policies and operational practices 
        of the Bureau with respect to making such offers.
            (3) The sufficiency of such policies and practices with 
        respect to inducing individuals to cooperate with, serve as 
        sources for such investigations, or both.
            (4) Whether the Director recommends any legislative actions 
        to improve such policies and practices, particularly with 
        respect to the counterintelligence efforts of the Bureau.

SEC. 10731. INTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENT OF NORTH KOREA REVENUE SOURCES.

    (a) Assessment Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence and 
Research and the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Intelligence 
and Analysis, shall produce an intelligence assessment of the revenue 
sources of the North Korean regime. Such assessment shall include 
revenue from the following sources:
            (1) Trade in coal, iron, and iron ore.
            (2) The provision of fishing rights to North Korean 
        territorial waters.
            (3) Trade in gold, titanium ore, vanadium ore, copper, 
        silver, nickel, zinc, or rare earth minerals, and other stores 
        of value.
            (4) Trade in textiles.
            (5) Sales of conventional defense articles and services.
            (6) Sales of controlled goods, ballistic missiles, and 
        other associated items.
            (7) Other types of manufacturing for export, as the 
        Director of National Intelligence considers appropriate.
            (8) The exportation of workers from North Korea in a manner 
        intended to generate significant revenue, directly or 
        indirectly, for use by the government of North Korea.
            (9) The provision of nonhumanitarian goods (such as food, 
        medicine, and medical devices) and services by other countries.
            (10) The provision of services, including banking and other 
        support, including by entities located in the Russian 
        Federation, China, and Iran.
            (11) Online commercial activities of the Government of 
        North Korea, including online gambling.
            (12) Criminal activities, including cyber-enabled crime and 
        counterfeit goods.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required under subsection (a) shall 
include an identification of each of the following:
            (1) The sources of North Korea's funding.
            (2) Financial and non-financial networks, including supply 
        chain management, transportation, and facilitation, through 
        which North Korea accesses the United States and international 
        financial systems and repatriates and exports capital, goods, 
        and services; and
            (3) the global financial institutions, money services 
        business, and payment systems that assist North Korea with 
        financial transactions.
    (c) Submittal to Congress.--Upon completion of the assessment 
required under subsection (a), the Director of National Intelligence 
shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a copy of 
such assessment.

SEC. 10732. REPORT ON POSSIBLE EXPLOITATION OF VIRTUAL CURRENCIES BY 
              TERRORIST ACTORS.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Stop Terrorist 
Use of Virtual Currencies Act''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation 
with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit to Congress a report 
on the possible exploitation of virtual currencies by terrorist actors. 
Such report shall include the following elements:
            (1) An assessment of the means and methods by which 
        international terrorist organizations and State sponsors of 
        terrorism use virtual currencies.
            (2) An assessment of the use by terrorist organizations and 
        State sponsors of terrorism of virtual currencies compared to 
        the use by such organizations and States of other forms of 
        financing to support operations, including an assessment of the 
        collection posture of the intelligence community on the use of 
        virtual currencies by such organizations and States.
            (3) A description of any existing legal impediments that 
        inhibit or prevent the intelligence community from collecting 
        information on or helping prevent the use of virtual currencies 
        by international terrorist organizations and State sponsors of 
        terrorism and an identification of any gaps in existing law 
        that could be exploited for illicit funding by such 
        organizations and States.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 10741. PUBLIC INTEREST DECLASSIFICATION BOARD.

    Section 710(b) of the Public Interest Declassification Act of 2000 
(Public Law 106-567; 50 U.S.C. 3161 note) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2028''.

SEC. 10742. SECURING ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Energy and 
                Natural Resources of the Senate; and
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security and the 
                Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' means an 
        entity identified pursuant to section 9(a) of Executive Order 
        13636 of February 12, 2013 (78 Fed. Reg. 11742), relating to 
        identification of critical infrastructure where a cybersecurity 
        incident could reasonably result in catastrophic regional or 
        national effects on public health or safety, economic security, 
        or national security.
            (3) Exploit.--The term ``exploit'' means a software tool 
        designed to take advantage of a security vulnerability.
            (4) Industrial control system.--The term ``industrial 
        control system'' means an operational technology used to 
        measure, control, or manage industrial functions, and includes 
        supervisory control and data acquisition systems, distributed 
        control systems, and programmable logic or embedded 
        controllers.
            (5) National laboratory.--The term ``National Laboratory'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
            (6) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the pilot program 
        established under subsection (b).
            (7) Secretary.--Except as otherwise specifically provided, 
        the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Energy.
            (8) Security vulnerability.--The term ``security 
        vulnerability'' means any attribute of hardware, software, 
        process, or procedure that could enable or facilitate the 
        defeat of a security control.
    (b) Pilot Program for Securing Energy Infrastructure.--Not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall establish a 2-year control systems implementation pilot 
program within the National Laboratories for the purposes of--
            (1) partnering with covered entities in the energy sector 
        (including critical component manufacturers in the supply 
        chain) that voluntarily participate in the Program to identify 
        new classes of security vulnerabilities of the covered 
        entities; and
            (2) evaluating technology and standards, in partnership 
        with covered entities, to isolate and defend industrial control 
        systems of covered entities from security vulnerabilities and 
        exploits in the most critical systems of the covered entities, 
        including--
                    (A) analog and nondigital control systems;
                    (B) purpose-built control systems; and
                    (C) physical controls.
    (c) Working Group to Evaluate Program Standards and Develop 
Strategy.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a working 
        group--
                    (A) to evaluate the technology and standards used 
                in the Program under subsection (b)(2); and
                    (B) to develop a national cyber-informed 
                engineering strategy to isolate and defend covered 
                entities from security vulnerabilities and exploits in 
                the most critical systems of the covered entities.
            (2) Membership.--The working group established under 
        paragraph (1) shall be composed of not fewer than 10 members, 
        to be appointed by the Secretary, at least 1 member of which 
        shall represent each of the following:
                    (A) The Department of Energy.
                    (B) The energy industry, including electric 
                utilities and manufacturers recommended by the Energy 
                Sector coordinating councils.
                    (C)(i) The Department of Homeland Security; or
                    (ii) the Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency 
                Response Team.
                    (D) The North American Electric Reliability 
                Corporation.
                    (E) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
                    (F)(i) The Office of the Director of National 
                Intelligence; or
                    (ii) the intelligence community (as defined in 
                section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
                U.S.C. 3003)).
                    (G)(i) The Department of Defense; or
                    (ii) the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Homeland Security and America's Security Affairs.
                    (H) A State or regional energy agency.
                    (I) A national research body or academic 
                institution.
                    (J) The National Laboratories.
    (d) Reports on the Program.--
            (1) Interim report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        on which funds are first disbursed under the Program, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees an interim report that--
                    (A) describes the results of the Program;
                    (B) includes an analysis of the feasibility of each 
                method studied under the Program; and
                    (C) describes the results of the evaluations 
                conducted by the working group established under 
                subsection (c)(1).
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 2 years after the date on 
        which funds are first disbursed under the Program, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a final report that--
                    (A) describes the results of the Program;
                    (B) includes an analysis of the feasibility of each 
                method studied under the Program; and
                    (C) describes the results of the evaluations 
                conducted by the working group established under 
                subsection (c)(1).
    (e) Exemption From Disclosure.--Information shared by or with the 
Federal Government or a State, Tribal, or local government under this 
section--
            (1) shall be deemed to be voluntarily shared information;
            (2) shall be exempt from disclosure under section 552 of 
        title 5, United States Code, or any provision of any State, 
        Tribal, or local freedom of information law, open government 
        law, open meetings law, open records law, sunshine law, or 
        similar law requiring the disclosure of information or records; 
        and
            (3) shall be withheld from the public, without discretion, 
        under section 552(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code, and any 
        provision of any State, Tribal, or local law requiring the 
        disclosure of information or records.
    (f) Protection From Liability.--
            (1) In general.--A cause of action against a covered entity 
        for engaging in the voluntary activities authorized under 
        subsection (b)--
                    (A) shall not lie or be maintained in any court; 
                and
                    (B) shall be promptly dismissed by the applicable 
                court.
            (2) Voluntary activities.--Nothing in this section subjects 
        any covered entity to liability for not engaging in the 
        voluntary activities authorized under subsection (b).
    (g) No New Regulatory Authority for Federal Agencies.--Nothing in 
this section authorizes the Secretary or the head of any other 
department or agency of the Federal Government to issue new 
regulations.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) Pilot program.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
        $10,000,000 to carry out subsection (b).
            (2) Working group and report.--There is authorized to be 
        appropriated $1,500,000 to carry out subsections (c) and (d).
            (3) Availability.--Amounts made available under paragraphs 
        (1) and (2) shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 10743. BUG BOUNTY PROGRAMS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
                of the Senate; and
                    (C) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Bug bounty program.--The term ``bug bounty program'' 
        means a program under which an approved computer security 
        specialist or security researcher is temporarily authorized to 
        identify and report vulnerabilities within the information 
        system of an agency or department of the United States in 
        exchange for compensation.
            (3) Information system.--The term ``information system'' 
        has the meaning given that term in section 3502 of title 44, 
        United States Code.
    (b) Bug Bounty Program Plan.--
            (1) Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
        in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to 
        appropriate committees of Congress a strategic plan for 
        appropriate agencies and departments of the United States to 
        implement bug bounty programs.
            (2) Contents.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    (A) an assessment of--
                            (i) the ``Hack the Pentagon'' pilot program 
                        carried out by the Department of Defense in 
                        2016 and subsequent bug bounty programs in 
                        identifying and reporting vulnerabilities 
                        within the information systems of the 
                        Department of Defense; and
                            (ii) private sector bug bounty programs, 
                        including such programs implemented by leading 
                        technology companies in the United States; and
                    (B) recommendations on the feasibility of 
                initiating bug bounty programs at appropriate agencies 
                and departments of the United States.

SEC. 10744. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO THE NATIONAL 
              INTELLIGENCE UNIVERSITY.

    (a) Civilian Faculty Members; Employment and Compensation.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1595(c) of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) The National Intelligence University.''.
            (2) Compensation plan.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
        provide each person employed as a full-time professor, 
        instructor, or lecturer at the National Intelligence University 
        on the date of the enactment of this Act an opportunity to 
        elect to be paid under the compensation plan in effect on the 
        day before the date of the enactment of this Act (with no 
        reduction in pay) or under the authority of section 1595 of 
        title 10, United States Code, as amended by paragraph (1).
    (b) Acceptance of Faculty Research Grants.--Section 2161 of such 
title is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Acceptance of Faculty Research Grants.--The Secretary of 
Defense may authorize the President of the National Intelligence 
University to accept qualifying research grants in the same manner and 
to the same degree as the President of the National Defense University 
under section 2165(e) of this title.''.
    (c) Pilot Program on Admission of Private Sector Civilians to 
Receive Instruction.--
            (1) Pilot program required.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                Defense shall commence carrying out a pilot program to 
                assess the feasability and advisability of permitting 
                eligible private sector employees who work in 
                organizations relevant to national security to receive 
                instruction at the National Intelligence University.
                    (B) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the 
                pilot program during the 3-year period beginning on the 
                date of the commencement of the pilot program.
                    (C) Existing program.--The Secretary shall carry 
                out the pilot program in a manner that is consistent 
                with section 2167 of title 10, United States Code.
                    (D) Number of participants.--No more than the 
                equivalent of 35 full-time student positions may be 
                filled at any one time by private sector employees 
                enrolled under the pilot program.
                    (E) Diplomas and degrees.--Upon successful 
                completion of the course of instruction in which 
                enrolled, any such private sector employee may be 
                awarded an appropriate diploma or degree under section 
                2161 of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) Eligible private sector employees.--
                    (A) In general.--For purposes of this subsection, 
                an eligible private sector employee is an individual 
                employed by a private firm that is engaged in providing 
                to the Department of Defense, the intelligence 
                community, or other Government departments or agencies 
                significant and substantial intelligence or defense-
                related systems, products, or services or whose work 
                product is relevant to national security policy or 
                strategy.
                    (B) Limitation.--Under this subsection, a private 
                sector employee admitted for instruction at the 
                National Intelligence University remains eligible for 
                such instruction only so long as that person remains 
                employed by the same firm, holds appropriate security 
                clearances, and complies with any other applicable 
                security protocols.
            (3) Annual certification by secretary of defense.--Under 
        the pilot program, private sector employees may receive 
        instruction at the National Intelligence University during any 
        academic year only if, before the start of that academic year, 
        the Secretary of Defense determines, and certifies to the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the House of Representatives, that providing 
        instruction to private sector employees under this section 
        during that year will further the national security interests 
        of the United States.
            (4) Pilot program requirements.--The Secretary of Defense 
        shall ensure that--
                    (A) the curriculum in which private sector 
                employees may be enrolled under the pilot program is 
                not readily available through other schools and 
                concentrates on national security-relevant issues; and
                    (B) the course offerings at the National 
                Intelligence University are determined by the needs of 
                the Department of Defense and the intelligence 
                community.
            (5) Tuition.--The President of the National Intelligence 
        University shall charge students enrolled under the pilot 
        program a rate that--
                    (A) is at least the rate charged for employees of 
                the United States outside the Department of Defense, 
                less infrastructure costs; and
                    (B) considers the value to the school and course of 
                the private sector student.
            (6) Standards of conduct.--While receiving instruction at 
        the National Intelligence University, students enrolled under 
        the pilot program, to the extent practicable, are subject to 
        the same regulations governing academic performance, 
        attendance, norms of behavior, and enrollment as apply to 
        Government civilian employees receiving instruction at the 
        university.
            (7) Use of funds.--
                    (A) In general.--Amounts received by the National 
                Intelligence University for instruction of students 
                enrolled under the pilot program shall be retained by 
                the university to defray the costs of such instruction.
                    (B) Records.--The source, and the disposition, of 
                such funds shall be specifically identified in records 
                of the university.
            (8) Reports.--
                    (A) Annual reports.--Each academic year in which 
                the pilot program is carried out, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the congressional intelligence committees, 
                the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the number of eligible 
                private sector employees participating in the pilot 
                program.
                    (B) Final report.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the conclusion of the pilot program, the 
                Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
                intelligence committees, the Committee on Armed 
                Services of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed 
                Services of the House of Representatives a report on 
                the findings of the Secretary with respect to the pilot 
                program. Such report shall include--
                            (i) the findings of the Secretary with 
                        respect to the feasability and advisability of 
                        permitting eligible private sector employees 
                        who work in organizations relevant to national 
                        security to receive instruction at the National 
                        Intelligence University; and
                            (ii) a recommendation as to whether the 
                        pilot program should be extended.

SEC. 10745. TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY 
              ACT OF 1947.

    (a) Table of Contents.--The table of contents at the beginning of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by inserting after the item relating to section 2 the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 3. Definitions.'';
            (2) by striking the item relating to section 107;
            (3) by striking the item relating to section 113B and 
        inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 113B. Special pay authority for science, technology, 
                            engineering, or mathematics positions.'';
            (4) by striking the items relating to sections 202, 203, 
        204, 208, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213, and 214; and
            (5) by inserting after the item relating to section 311 the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 312. Repealing and saving provisions.''.
    (b) Other Technical Corrections.--Such Act is further amended--
            (1) in section 102A--
                    (A) in subparagraph (G) of paragraph (1) of 
                subsection (g), by moving the margins of such 
                subparagraph 2 ems to the left; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3) of subsection (v), by moving 
                the margins of such paragraph 2 ems to the left;
            (2) in section 106--
                    (A) by inserting ``sec. 106'' before ``(a)''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (I) of paragraph (2) of 
                subsection (b), by moving the margins of such 
                subparagraph 2 ems to the left;
            (3) by striking section 107;
            (4) in section 108(c), by striking ``in both a classified 
        and an unclassified form'' and inserting ``to Congress in 
        classified form, but may include an unclassified summary'';
            (5) in section 112(c)(1), by striking ``section 103(c)(7)'' 
        and inserting ``section 102A(i)'';
            (6) by amending section 201 to read as follows:

``SEC. 201. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    ``Except to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this Act 
or other provisions of law, the provisions of title 5, United States 
Code, shall be applicable to the Department of Defense.'';
            (7) in section 205, by redesignating subsections (b) and 
        (c) as subsections (a) and (b), respectively;
            (8) in section 206, by striking ``(a)'';
            (9) in section 207, by striking ``(c)'';
            (10) in section 308(a), by striking ``this Act'' and 
        inserting ``sections 2, 101, 102, 103, and 303 of this Act'';
            (11) by redesignating section 411 as section 312;
            (12) in section 503--
                    (A) in paragraph (5) of subsection (c)--
                            (i) by moving the margins of such paragraph 
                        2 ems to the left; and
                            (ii) by moving the margins of subparagraph 
                        (B) of such paragraph 2 ems to the left; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2) of subsection (d), by moving 
                the margins of such paragraph 2 ems to the left; and
            (13) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of subsection (a) 
        of section 504, by moving the margins of such subparagraph 2 
        ems to the right.

SEC. 10746. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATED TO THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.

    (a) National Nuclear Security Administration Act.--Section 3233(b) 
of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2423(b)) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Administration'' and inserting 
        ``Department''; and
            (2) by inserting ``Intelligence and'' after ``the Office 
        of''.
    (b) Atomic Energy Defense Act.--Section 4524(b)(2) of the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2674(b)(2)) is amended by inserting 
``Intelligence and'' after ``The Director of''.
    (c) National Security Act of 1947.--Paragraph (2) of section 106(b) 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041(b)(2)) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ``and 
        Counterintelligence'' after ``Office of Intelligence'';
            (2) by striking subparagraph (F);
            (3) by redesignating subparagraphs (G), (H), and (I) as 
        subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H), respectively; and
            (4) in subparagraph (H), as so redesignated, by realigning 
        the margin of such subparagraph 2 ems to the left.

SEC. 10747. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NOTIFICATION OF CERTAIN DISCLOSURES OF 
              CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Adversary foreign government.--The term ``adversary 
        foreign government'' means the government of any of the 
        following foreign countries:
                    (A) North Korea.
                    (B) Iran.
                    (C) China.
                    (D) Russia.
                    (E) Cuba.
            (2) Covered classified information.--The term ``covered 
        classified information'' means classified information that 
        was--
                    (A) collected by an element of the intelligence 
                community; or
                    (B) provided by the intelligence service or 
                military of a foreign country to an element of the 
                intelligence community.
            (3) Established intelligence channels.--The term 
        ``established intelligence channels'' means methods to exchange 
        intelligence to coordinate foreign intelligence relationships, 
        as established pursuant to law by the Director of National 
        Intelligence, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, 
        the Director of the National Security Agency, or other head of 
        an element of the intelligence community.
            (4) Individual in the executive branch.--The term 
        ``individual in the executive branch'' means any officer or 
        employee of the executive branch, including individuals--
                    (A) occupying a position specified in article II of 
                the Constitution;
                    (B) appointed to a position by an individual 
                described in subparagraph (A); or
                    (C) serving in the civil service or the Senior 
                Executive Service (or similar service for senior 
                executives of particular departments or agencies).
    (b) Findings.--Congress finds that section 502 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3092) requires elements of the 
intelligence community to keep the congressional intelligence 
committees ``fully and currently informed'' about all ``intelligence 
activities'' of the United States, and to ``furnish to the 
congressional intelligence committees any information or material 
concerning intelligence activities * * * which is requested by either 
of the congressional intelligence committees in order to carry out its 
authorized responsibilities.''.
    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) section 502 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3092), together with other intelligence community 
        authorities, obligates an element of the intelligence community 
        to submit to the congressional intelligence committees written 
        notification, by not later than 7 days after becoming aware, 
        that an individual in the executive branch has disclosed 
        covered classified information to an official of an adversary 
        foreign government using methods other than established 
        intelligence channels; and
            (2) each such notification should include--
                    (A) the date and place of the disclosure of 
                classified information covered by the notification;
                    (B) a description of such classified information;
                    (C) identification of the individual who made such 
                disclosure and the individual to whom such disclosure 
                was made; and
                    (D) a summary of the circumstances of such 
                disclosure.

SEC. 10748. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CONSIDERATION OF ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES 
              WHEN CONSIDERING WHETHER OR NOT TO PROVIDE VISAS TO 
              FOREIGN INDIVIDUALS TO BE ACCREDITED TO A UNITED NATIONS 
              MISSION IN THE UNITED STATES.

    It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of State, in 
considering whether or not to provide a visa to a foreign individual to 
be accredited to a United Nations mission in the United States, should 
consider--
            (1) known and suspected intelligence activities, espionage 
        activities, including activities constituting precursors to 
        espionage, carried out by the individual against the United 
        States, foreign allies of the United States, or foreign 
        partners of the United States; and
            (2) the status of an individual as a known or suspected 
        intelligence officer for a foreign adversary.

SEC. 10749. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON WIKILEAKS.

    It is the sense of Congress that WikiLeaks and the senior 
leadership of WikiLeaks resemble a nonstate hostile intelligence 
service often abetted by state actors and should be treated as such a 
service by the United States.

            Passed the Senate June 27, 2019.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
116th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1790

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
   for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
   military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.
